do you think of salt lamps real do you
think that thing does anything I don't
know how much you'd need Hey well it
keeps it's got a hat on it
yeah so it's not being taken too
seriously that's actually a big one you
get a lot smaller than not don't ya
yeah I saw that one that was the biggest
one you can find on Amazon about that
yeah cuz I'm a glutton big things big
hot rocks yeah why not I'm like I want a
big one do it it's very uh very flashy
do you think that does anything no I
don't know good question it's um was it
just lets the the air often just
breathing in the natural salt Sonya
helps with the sleep as well how is it
doing that that's just but by being in
the room hmm maybe I should have married
well isn't the light as well as a light
off the heat in the light sets off the
air I believe so it sounds like horse
shit could be a little B yeah it looks
good though right so you asked me before
if if you were the first Welshman yes I
think you are is that the cage Amy do
you know if that's the case somebody
might have snuck in and didn't tell us
there we go yeah what is the thing that
you brought I for I found the first
washed person I've got a keeping try to
keep this like a Fisher I've got to
bring a Welsh dragon for you a Welsh
drought Welsh dragon so there's aa flag
in in Wales goes back a long time ago
since we were like protecting ourselves
and pride wow it's cool really know the
history but there we go so this is a
classic Welsh dragon Welsh dragon yeah
his name like one of the coolest flags
in the world you just got this big big
raging dragon on a flag though this
Brits off off on the first watch but God
hath gotta bring you where yeah the red
dragon look at it right there there's
some images there we go yeah have you
been to Wales before no no no how badass
is it yeah beautiful it is a good place
lots of mountains right on the coast
there as well of course
forests lakes good for training that's
where I do all my train yeah yeah
hardcore elements speaking of train ash
tell really what you've done so I've
recently only five months ago now five
and a half months came back from
achieving my third world first record in
walking the entire length of the Yangtze
River
in China this was the third longest
river in the world the longest to run
through a single nation it's 4,000 miles
it took 350 two days and it's from the
Tibetan Plateau in the west of China as
you're talking five thousand one hundred
meters above sea level which is
equivalent to Everest base camp and and
yeah four thousand miles later three
hundred fifty two days you end up near
the near Shanghai where it pours out
into the East China Sea you know what I
thought when I heard that you did this I
thought two things one I thought this
guy's insane like what kind of willpower
does it take to walk and hike four
thousand plus miles but the other thing
I thought is this kind of validates a
lot of the ideas that people have always
had about human beings migrating from
Africa and through Siberia and do the
Bering Strait like yes you can do that
what you did what you did is not
dissimilar you know that's it yeah you
got trails all over the world and you're
just doing it for a world record imagine
if you're doing it because you're trying
to stay alive to keep your family alive
yeah yeah I'll tell you what yeah we
would have had oh there's so much so
much history in journeys that mankind
kind of taken Wow I read an uh Safian no
it's great really just stopped her but
that's just mind-boggling with the
numbers you know he's right back whoa
whoa but um yes of the source of the
Yangtze it was actually only discovered
in 2009 the true and scientific source
rizzoli yeah that gives us we have to do
- it took over two years of planning so
it was a case of working heavily in
China finding out whether this had ever
been done before it talked we had to get
different teams involved globally and
then we discovered that I was always I
was always preparing to go from the
traditional source which is most famous
for for the source of the Yangtze be you
actually be in there but then we only
discovered about year into the planet
that actually there's a true and
scientific source found by the same guy
who mapped the traditional source yet he
partnered up with NASA used all the
satellite technology was able to correct
as wrong it's slightly longer than the
traditional source and that was it when
I write got to be the Chu in scientific
source how much
it's probably only a distance of 20 to
30 miles which that's only really a
day's trek but it was more close to
Tibet was more south southwest of China
so it was closer to the Tibetan border
which means it's a little bit more
sensitive so it was tougher to go from
from the true in scientific source for
sure but it's the longer one if you're
gonna walk that distance you've gotta do
it the proper way
yeah I agree with you I'm glad you think
that way but obviously a person that's
willing to walk 4,000 miles would think
that way 20 miles if you skipped on 20
miles and ever was like wow you did a
pretty good job actually Mike over here
just did the whole thing he's the real
one well that's how that happened
towards the end as well so coming up
near Shanghai there's an official point
of where the Yangtze pulls into the East
China Sea and they're like you know you
only have to go to this this point I'm
like no I'm walking to where the land
ends so that took me an extra only an
extra couple of days but Kim I didn't
finish inside we didn't quite make it
did yeah you were we didn't quite make
it so I wasn't walking Ealing like when
you know you only have two days left um
well we were hit by storm storm nickimja
so it was one of the biggest storms
they've had in the past 30 years and not
put me in to hide and you know it's a
shelter up after everything that I faced
over 350 days you know and that stopped
me only a couple of days before I
crossed into the East China Sea before
the finish but at that point it's almost
I visualized the completion over and
over again in my head I played it so
many times of what it would be like what
it would feel like it's you know
everything to to cross the finish line
that almost when that day happened and I
did cross the finish line
I almost over visualized I didn't feel
anything it's just like well so it's
about damn time
you know Wow yeah and I believe you know
the law of attraction visualization I've
always been a big believer in that and
same with Mongolia and Madagascar which
might were my previous expeditions I
almost lost my life on both of those
trips but that sound that I'm suffering
I'm just constantly visualizing you know
I was focusing on recovering getting
better visualizing the finish keep
getting up keep pushing on I want to get
to that
get to those but I want to I want to ask
you when you decide to plan this trip
yeah so how much had you learned from
the first two crazy trips that you had
and how did you calculate like how much
food you're gonna need where you're
gonna meet neat pit stops where you're
gonna be able to like how did you do it
so with that we're always looking for
communities along along Route you know
it's a community there's food and so and
actually that brings me back to the
traditional and then the true scientific
source if we went from the traditional
we'd go maybe one week or one and a half
weeks without coming across any locals
so we'd have to carry a week and a half
worth of Russian packs in our backpack
but that's true in scientific sauce
centers back I think it was two or three
weeks we couldn't find any community
along the way by satellite and via the
people that we were there are my
logistics managers so these need to
carry craziest way to try to visit
people yeah find them through satellite
as you're trekking through a forest yeah
and then try to get food that's it and
we're always maximizing as well so we're
saying okay that's three weeks so let's
carry food for three and a half or four
weeks because if that communities now
empty or abandoned then we're out of
food what what are you carrying for food
I would carry Russian packs so and the
Russian packs were pretty good
we had like chicken tikka masala
spaghetti bolognaise carbonara and each
Russian pack was around eight hundred
kilocalories and are you using our car
are these dehydrated yeah that's good so
you just boil the water pour it in there
you wait about 15 minutes like a
mountain house like that kind of yeah
yeah similar that's it so you must be so
looking forward to regular food by the
time that's over oh what's the first
thing you ate you know the one that I
was protein the one I was craving was
just protein so I was thinking of peanut
butter sinking cheese on toast
because it's just mostly carbohydrate
like chicken as well as a mean thing I
was just craving all of this big time I
don't know what the first thing I was
your body knows what you need exactly
yeah you've got to listen to your body
gonna listen it's hard to listen I mean
it's hard to know well I don't not
really sure what I hear yeah you know
yet
craving sometimes I'm craving ice creams
that's what I'm supposed to listen to
some ice cream yeah exactly yeah yeah
just listen your cravings yeah yeah and
I think ya know you I think almost
listening to you've got to be stripped
of all the all of the protein and
whatnot running for you you body
currently how many I think if you full
mm-hmm you crave an ice cream you know
if you feel you want a dessert but I
think if you're now at the point I'm not
starvation but if you're really hungry
and you know what's good what's not good
you I think your body gives a good tale
sign of what you can at the last month
of mission Yangtze I was really bad I
was coming across cities every day
because you can imagine like the towards
Shanghai you coming across cities you
come across towns communities and so I
was just craving protein I was craving
fats and a lot the time for about last
month I was just eating really unhealthy
just get in starting you know there was
fast food chains along the way KFC you
know that's really yes I was out of the
white the wilderness was like six months
worth once I finished the first half it
was gradual for then another two or
three months but the last three months
you're going from city after city all
really built at high population there
and I found that my body was Krause I
was listening to my body
scraping fats craving protein and yeah
you're right it did get ridiculous I was
going to these you know fast food and
like that the translation I could speak
Chinese a little bit I was just kind of
I could get by but say Chinese like
which dialect
oh there's over a hundred dialects yeah
so that's where it got difficult so even
it was nails really difficult Mandarin
would you speak your basic Mandarin
business yeah enough to just about get
by but I skipped all of the basics and
went straight into the sentences we're
all well they're bears here are there
bear the wolves where the water food
shelter so yes get a little basic those
are two questions I don't ever want to
hear yeah are there bears here and where
are the wolves not not are there wolves
here where are they
where are they fuck I say and you're out
there walking yeah for a year yeah
that's it I'm for the first six months
specially so the first six months is
mostly hiking in the woods it's hiking
in the wilderness on the Tibetan Plateau
are you carrying your camp on your back
yeah so you have a baby sir quick will
you sleep at 10 so we have 10 really
light weights with a chi last 10 get it
up storm proof it's amazing how light
they can get those doing student all
right because I had to carry all of the
the food we were filming for a
documentary that's carry electronics in
got too heavy now do you when you're
when you're in this tent do you go with
a double-layer tent so you have provides
more insulation it's a little heavier or
do you have like a really lightweight
tent and just try to tough it out in the
cold we have I had a double layer but
that's because the double layer was just
so small and so light no and it was a
case of yeah you know that's your
comfort that's your shelter right facing
some big storms yeah that's what I was
thinking I was like you'd sacrifice
probably the weight for just something
that's gonna keep you insulated in there
that's it yeah you know do you have a
pad that protects you from the ground
yeah on top of that yeah we've got the
part like the waterproof pad on the
ground from the tent and then we've got
a sleeping mat maybe about this this
thick about a half an inch to an inch
thickness mm-hmm and then I had a - 25
or minus 30 degree Celsius sleeping bag
and what that is in in Fahrenheit but
that was an you know you got toasty
inside it goes - what is the issue with
the ground though like do you have to
have an insulated pad to make sure that
the ground cold doesn't get to you yeah
for sure that's what the the sleep and
mud is so it's sort of you can roll it
down it's really small really tight
really lightweight as well but once you
roll it out it's got like memory foam
almost inside something similar and then
you have to blow in it pump it up a
little bit more so only takes 10 20
breaths easy to pack away as well
it protects you from the cold and it
protects from there because that's what
you need you know the ground just to
never been comfortable camping it's all
like popping yeah you're awake you made
it
but still you feel weird yeah you can do
you do get used to it yeah but
especially after the trekking we were
covering 50 kilometres some days well
we've come about 20-25 miles especially
in the Tibetan Plateau so after that
day's Trek only to ration packs per day
were you taken in 1,600 calories that's
not a lot not a lot and we were carrying
how much weight did you lose I properly
but I've still lost weight now at about
13 12 to 13 kilograms I would say in
weight which over the year was I lost
the same amount in Mongolia 32 pounds
something it's about 32 is it 32 pounds
yeah so um wow that's a lot of weight to
lose you're not a big guy yeah that's it
fuck man that must have been you must
have been really drawn out at the end
big time although it kind of worked
itself out because towards the end I was
coming across more food didn't need my
my ration packs of course someone's
coming across more restaurants I can
collect food as I as I go it's not so
low and unsupported journey so I was
just utilized and I was eating with the
locals and I was you know taking as much
calories down as I possibly could cost I
was trucking did you pick like the cut
the type of meals based on calories did
you like when what I'm talking about
like the mountain house type deals or I
don't know what company you used what
kind of yeah expedition foods I think so
the house that I different ones that are
more nutrient rich and less calorie rich
yeah they have the smaller lighter ones
as well which you got about 600 calories
they are smaller they are lights are
easier to pack but I need it as much as
I could possibly get you know yeah they
have a bunch of healthy options now
because one of them CrossFitters are out
there camping these days
yeah yeah I don't want to get that
healthy paleo food weather out there
lying but the the what's undeniable has
got to be for you is that once you've
made those steps the first steps for the
first day you have this monumental thing
in front of you yeah like what was that
like knowing when you started like here
ready alright by a spy it was seeing
here oh yeah this is exactly that it was
exactly
it was daunting it was so before we got
to the oh he got to the source of the
Yangtze River we lost I think four
members when I say lost they survived
but they got altitude sickness
they were fearing for that house because
the bears because of the wolves so
before we reach day number one before we
reached the start line we've already got
four members of the film crew of guides
evacuated taken off the mountains which
brought me off the mountains as well
because I needed to regroup with a
different team so everyone was scared
and people also got out to sickness how
high are you up there
we are just over 5,000 meters oh my god
yes equivalent to Everest base camp I'd
say oh my and get out to cheat sickness
from really fucking high that's 15,000
feet right that's about that yeah yeah
and there's wolves up there there's
wolves yeah what how help us would you
feel at 15,000 feet when you see a pack
of water oh yeah and they're looking at
you like hey you don't look too good
buddy it's the Bears that scared me
tomorrow they're scared you can't do
anything against a bear can do I mean
it's a wolf you can't do anything
against it especially at 15,000 feet
exactly tie your shoes give them as well
oh my god yeah yeah we can't carry any
weapon recently oh oh yeah oh sitting
duck really can't carry any weaponry yet
yeah you can't even have a knife I tried
I took a knife out did I say yeah I took
a knife out but I was it was taken from
me insecurities lying out to the west so
I bought another one in you shoe yeah I
did have a knife for the first month or
two yeah but again pack of wolves yeah
you ain't gonna do shit
I'd say that's it tear your legs apart
yeah wolves are the the nastiest hunters
big-time and we had close encounter as
well with a pack
there was a yeah there was a Tibetan he
was trying to warn us he was trying to
say well this is my this is my angle we
were just talking to him he looked a
little bit worried a little bit stressed
while high on the mountains he keeps
pointing down a valley talking to his to
enter Tibetan we didn't understand
sort of waved or thank you bye big smile
off we go say where's me and my friend
also videographer Kyle we cracked on but
Kyle filmed all of that conversation and
four months later we found out that from
a girl from my editor team in Beijing
who could speak to betting that he was
saying right ahead right down that
Valley is a pack of wolves and only
yesterday they had killed a local lady
and trying to you know they were trying
to get us not to go down there saying
don't go oh we didn't know so we know oh
yeah well the West Thanks see ya and we
cracked on for the next two days we were
followed we believe we were followed by
or stalked by a pack of wolves and they
they cover bigger distance then then
humans cover you know for two days they
were just out in the same proximity same
distance away far to the other side of
the fuck fuck how do you go to sleep at
night what's that like yeah I was
luckily it was windy the wind would pick
up at nighttime so would rally your
tents so you couldn't hear the howling
don't hit on the day yeah you still
stood there your knife state soldiers
that you constantly showing over to your
buddy okay you're just gonna become a
burrito in the middle of the night yeah
yeah yeah it was scary I felt vulnerable
really vulnerable at their FARC bro and
the low coming days were you doing this
with their walls so it was two days that
they were following us but we were in
sort of wolfe county if you like for the
best part of two or three months i would
say oh with the Bears as well and the
bears became an issue because I sort of
went out there with a healthy mindset as
long as I leave the Bears alone the
Bears are gonna leave me alone right but
the locals were telling me otherwise and
they would start showing me photo star
showed me videos and sending me clip
saying this happened only one two
kilometers away from you are from where
you are now able to burn people killed
just running into huts killing families
and they were trying to say that they're
coming off the mountains because it's
too cold they're looking for calories
before they go into hibernation so we
were there in the wrong season and it's
that that terrified as the most it was
the stories at the locals and you know
if the locals panic then you should
definitely be panicking as well there's
a lot of parts of the world or you have
to be really worried about wild animals
all the time yeah we see here in America
for whatever reason we've forgotten that
I think everybody that lives in a big
city is
basically kind of forgotten that yeah
yeah but when you make that track you
realize like oh there's no rules out
here they're they'll eat you that's a
billion every Lily the caribou they'll
eat a moose why wouldn't you yeah what
do you think you're special didn't know
what the fuck you are I'll say it's
probably the only thing that keeps you
alive is they haven't eaten a person
lately yeah and they say like you said
caribou they can take the best they
gonna caribou like moose yeah he was a
huge as well
Brandon watched a moose kill or excuse
me watched a bear kill a moose on a
spotting scope
he was looking through his spotting
scope and he saw a bear SWAT down the
back of a moose just break its back
terrifying he said the grizzly hit the
moose so hard it snapped its back like
what power - ish emotion a bear and they
are big on the music is a huge yes bear
swatted that thing and broke its back
and he said we watched it go down he
watched this chase there's like this
altercation between this bear and the
Moose and he stayed on it and the bear
gets ahold of most just fucking swats it
- moose is like bitchy going nowhere
yeah yeah yeah those animals are up
there and China - yeah they're very
similar type of bear right it's a type
of brown bear yes I put brown bear yes I
do you've got the big ones he's in the
last night they killed them all -
California everything that they had yeah
that was here in California it's on our
flag it's our state flag if you look at
the California state flag there's a
giant grizzly bear in the middle of the
California state flag because he used to
be an issue here they killed so many
people that we just killed all the Bears
not wait I was in here oh yeah so this
is an orphan I wall they that's it right
there yeah oh yeah they're nowhere near
here you got to go up into like
Vancouver British Columbia has so what's
the British Columbia has a lot yeah they
have montana has 'm montana has
Grizzlies Wyoming has Grizzlies Colorado
may or may not my friend Adam saw them
there yeah but did not in California
anymore it's just because they killed
him there's actually a town named after
the last guy who died Levesque
California the last guy who got killed
by a grizzly bear just out hunting was
it oh just probably be
dude there was a live back gen
terrifying
so you experience this in China you're
yeah what are what are your precautions
are you allowed to bring bear spray so
we had an air horn
we had a whistle oh Jesus whistle a
whistle yeah so they say that the boat
the biggest attacks happen
from where Tibetans out forming doing
their business in the mountains they
they're in the forest and this surprise
they come up the top of the hill there's
a bear there and obviously the Bears
shocked it's scared and it just attacks
yeah those happen with bears in America
that's it yeah so they would same pretty
much take a whistle take an hour make
yourself aware well make the bear aware
that you'll get your present your
function and normally they would be they
would you know scare off they run away
but there was a local that told me that
so they have these big to better masters
have you seen that's a better masters
like yes dogs thank God the two live
rounds were terrifying more of a problem
than that the wolves they were for me
because they can scare away the Wolves
scare with snow leopards the Bears but
this one local was telling me that he
wasn't living in his ger which is like a
white felt tent like a year he was
living in a concrete hut and he had a
courtyard with a fence the fence was
open but just outside the fence it's a
better must have chained up and he said
that this bear wasn't fazed about the
Tibet must if it was straight past it
into the courtyard and was scratching
its steel door whilst he was hired and
in one of his empty covers and that's
lasted about 30-40 minutes and was
telling me this story oh fuck man
they're monsters if you weren't a real
thing
if grizzly bears or brown bears weren't
real hmm and then they were in a movie
you'd be like what yeah yeah poor guy
and imagine you you'd like you someone
would ask someone like you like why in
the world yeah if you know they're there
what you're gonna want to walk for that
long yeah their country
yeah well that's that's it that's only
people with you and towards the start so
it was myself it was two guides that I
had Tibetan guide so we can even
communicate ah
but with safety in numbers and we took a
horse for the film crew but the film
crew got altitude sickness and left us
with the horse which I
Detroit we haven't seen the movie face
off yes the bad ass castor Troy a lot
Solaris I've got this thing where I name
like my bicycles or like carried a
chicken we'll get to that kind of
chicken and Madagascar I've been given
them old crazy ridiculous granny names
and I was like this horse is the last
one standing last by my crew my my
guides a serf remove attitude sickness
and and being taken off the mountains
you've got this horse still suffering
with altitude sickness never knew that
the panting horses can animals can
suffer with altitude sickness but he's
there like a badass still going so it's
just me and him and I'm like and can't
give you a granny's name my elder or
daughter Gertrude and giving you cast a
choke from face-off that's all a self
yeah yeah we've made for that movie
multiple times with the preposterous
nature of switch and faces like Nicolas
Cage now so the people come with you in
the beginning and then they stay with
you the entire trip yeah we we hope so
no sorry so it be so first two guides
that I had altitude sickness as well as
the film crew I came off the mountains I
found two new guys who were willing to
join me about 50% now the UK team the
China team was saying you know abandon
the expedition start again start again
next to you start again so yeah try
again next year because it was getting
too close encounter season how many days
had you already worked we hadn't reached
the stop point yet oh so we had truly I
think it was four days it took for us to
get to the stop we but just before we
reached the start point that's when the
film crew got altitude sickness we sent
them home and then the next day my guide
he was vomiting he had nosebleed we had
to get him off the mountains too so we
left the horse with some local nomads
got him off the mountains regroup with a
different team and tried again so our
first attempt towards the source was it
was a fail we regrouped it was myself as
two guys it was the horse and we
eventually finally made it to the source
they just but it was on that that gap in
a nearby city of regrouping with a new
team with new guides that my team in the
UK and China would like saying I think
it's best if you if you hold back and we
try again next year because you'll be in
the in the Tibetan Plateau
during the depths the the depths of
winter which drops to about minus 30
minus 40 degrees Celsius which was a
worry but I believed that we could get
off the mountains it was the attitude
that was the problem down into lower
altitude before the deaths - for people
who don't know the conversion I think
that's where it meets in the middle of
negative 40 is where Celsius and
Fahrenheit is the same right so okay so
people in this country use Fahrenheit
you say Celsius yeah I think minus 14
minus 40 Fahrenheit are the same oh yeah
and I think that's where it hits the
button
glia was it say they're just - - LC is
minus 22 Fahrenheit you're right you go
to minus 40 I think minus 40 is right
where it is no no - 40 yeah yeah see oh
yeah that's where it's exactly the same
in Celsius and Fahrenheit day we all so
we're yeah how the fuck does that out
yeah how is it the same thing like
you're never the same thing yeah how you
become the same thing who's got the
wonky system is that - one for our -
forty it becomes the same there we go
very - 40 Fahrenheit yeah right because
it showed like 40 Celsius he's very hot
right it's like 100 plus yeah yeah yeah
45 minus 40 is the same the fuck is
going on here who's got the wax
what's 40 degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit
they're 4 degrees Celsius is probably
one will come to that for what is it 104
yeah
104 104 yeah yeah it's hot yeah weird
melting no what kind of gear are you
guys taking with you in terms of like
are you taking a Jetboil are you taking
just matches you're hoping to find wood
are you trying to stay light you have a
lightweight stove like wood so we took a
lightweight stove along with us we took
Flint with us as well matches and a
lighter
no no Jetboil or anything like that
because you wouldn't be able to refill
on problems yeah what we had actually we
had a year a bottle that connects to the
stove and with that bottle you can even
fill it up with gasoline but you can
also use vodka whiskey and run off the
vapors
you get pumping up pump the bottle the
vapors leak out sparks a flame and
you're good to go
really yeah so that's what I talk
specially in Mongolia nomads get how you
Russian Russian vodka Oh drinking vodka
just like people think you're a drunk
you really just try to stay alive out
there in the wilderness yeah you know
drinking it ease into fuel much does it
how much does it like is it efficient
like you the use of vodka like how much
vodka does it take to cook your meal
luckily I didn't I didn't need to try it
that was just a precaution that was all
I always carried enough gasoline with me
because by using the the vodka or the
whiskey it does ruin the stove is it
like blocks that the small hole that
sparks the s'mores in the flame you
don't want that isn't that funny you
would think that like if anything
gasoline would be more fucked
yeah you would yeah that's it yeah yeah
it's probably because it's not all
alcohol right yeah a bunch other shit in
there it's gonna be it's gonna be but if
you had rubbing alcohol pure rubbing
alcohol probably burn even better yeah
potentially how you would thought so
yeah this whole idea that you you had to
do this mm-hmm how much encouragement
did you get from people that you told
the story to and how many people like
you can't do this you're gonna die up
there I'd say a healthy mix for those
who had seen the previous adventures
that I had done they had a they had hope
they held hope they had faith in you
yeah they had faith come on surely he's
got this they knew you'd already
accomplished two amazing things that's
it and it was never done recklessly
first it was never really done for the
record there was always environmental
angle sustainability awareness etc but
it's also the planning so it's not that
I used to do really reckless stuff we'll
get to that but now it's meticulous
planets the details looking at what can
go wrong but also learning how you can
possibly overcome it back home a good
cliffhanger yeah yeah but when you're
walking what kind of equipment are using
are using a GPS and if so do you have
solar panels that you're using to gather
electricity yeah so yeah we would take
solar panels so we had solar panels we
had the a couple of power banks so we'd
use the solar panel to charge the power
bank and then that will charge like the
the GPS the the cameras can I ask you
how you do that are you putting it on
the back of your backpack as you want
that's it yeah which strap it's at the
top of the rucksack okay and you know
it's Mongolia specially is known as the
eternal land of blue sky mm-hmm
and where I was wasn't too far so we did
have a lot of blue sky with decent sun
rays I was able to charge the power bank
and that power bank could last up to
about a week and a half of charging
depend on how I use it so it's really
really useful that's incredible so when
you're walking how much does it take
what is the milliamp hour in the so what
is it I think I think I studied it by
how many charges I can get from the
iPhone so I think it was seven or eight
or eight charges from 0% on the iPhone
to 100% seven to eight straight charges
and care and that sometimes requires
quite a bit sometimes I was just
charging the GoPro or the little
satellite satellite phone and you're
able to get that full charge just from
that solar panel and how long just from
the power bank yeah the solar panel
would take a good while to charge up the
the power bank so what I did is a couple
days I'd say a couple of a couple of
days to get to 100% yeah for sure for
sure 25 to 30% per day I think it was
that's interesting so it seems like you
could almost get everything you need
just in while you're walking everyday
that's it
yeah but you're right there if the days
are good you know if we write access to
blue sky but I took does it work at all
when it's cloudy
it does but painfully slow pay like
maybe after an hour you've bumped up a
percent how crazy is the idea though of
the there stealing energy out of the sky
hazy
yes the Sun the energy the Sun is
powering your phone that's it that's it
I want to do it that way just to do it
that way it just sounds so bad yeah and
that's the air exactly exactly that's
the way the world's moving as well isn't
the energy of the Sun power and your
phone I mean just the world just needs
more efficient ways to use solar and
they're gonna get better at it for sure
yeah far better than it used to be yeah
I was shocked to see it all over China
as well actually so you're
I'd imagine right there's a lot of rural
places in particular that don't really
have too much access to the grid yeah
yeah so when you are you're traveling
around you've got are you using the
phone as your GPS or do you have a
standalone GPS you so with China I was
using that the GPS and that would keep
me like a garment or something yeah and
in an enriched didn't really oh yeah
that's the one you can communicate with
people right with that one you can send
text only right yeah but I did I took an
aviary no sorrowful Sat phone I know
with a laugh for cause and that got me
out of a lot of a lot of difficult
situations we were you ever in a
situation we like I think these people
were gonna rob us I was robbed in
Mongolia but in China no I've got robbed
in Mongolia what happened
they stopped my solar panel really they
did it so politely so nicely they just
came over they visit ouch chilling with
them me and my ration pack they brought
some food and some tea over we're all
sat out in the Sun and at one point they
would have slid my solar panel under my
tent and I didn't see it so when I came
for me to pack everything back into my
tent which I did from head down fell
asleep and then I always all of a sudden
felt I know Jin on the tent and
something was yanked from underneath it
and I just said hello and then someone
was just running away and I thought well
maybe he came to say hi and I've just
scared him off not realising but then
the next morning realized the solar
panels missing and then whilst I was
tracking I clicked and four okay very
clever came back then a few hours later
at dark took it from underneath and ran
so now how would he do without a fucking
solar panel we have what I had a spare I
was at that point I took a trailer and
the trailer weighed about 120 kilograms
of everything that I had in it which is
about 260 pounds
and so yeah I with that journey I mean
how are you moving the trailer so yeah
so with math Kolya it's just strapped
with me it's like a four-point harness
what on wheels so you're not just
walking 4000 miles you walk in 4000
miles or 200 so this year this is a
whole different expedition yeah so this
taste I
came to Robyn there was nothing in China
okay okay so that's that but in China no
I had difficult situations with the
authorities with the police will try
their bribes no they were just I was in
a sensitive area you know to get to the
source the planning it took over two
years so I need a government support I
needed national park access I needed an
a green Development Foundation which is
like an organization to make me
ambassador I to make me doctor for a
year to be able to get all of this
access but when when I went through the
motions of getting these different
organizations on board that would give
me access to the authorities and allow
me to get to the source it was it was my
husband blows my mind now is really
really difficult to get off the off the
ground but we did that but still we were
so close to Tibet that the Tibetan
police would would come over and
threaten to you know get rid of us and
the porters and whatnot so that came is
worried thirteen different documents or
scandal official or signed so I had to
show them that I had to use the
satellite phone call into the Beijing
team uses translation I think that one
time they may meet delete all of the
information all of the tract information
I needed for Guinness world record they
may be delete that but I was backed up
because they didn't want to have me seen
walk in this region it was quite
sensitive there but I was definitely in
China and definitely in qinghai province
sensitive household just because you've
got Tibet and you've got China and
they're very close to each other so I
needed to make sure that I was always in
in China sometimes you'd get the police
come on did they think that you were a
spy or something
yeah no idea what they thought but it
came as a shock to them they were also
very worried for my safety so there was
that angle as well but they were saying
once they found out was official it was
legit and it apologize that I should
follow me on the the Chinese social
media you know follow the journey so
that was great but after that they did
say we off just you know bringing you in
for protection there's bears as wolves
would not see no Western along so that
got tricky and there was one stage where
they they said you need to be on the
other side of the river so
they drove us 40 miles back on our self
to a bridge dropped us off on the other
side and we had to do those 40 miles all
over again that was day six into the
journey and we were desperately trying
to get off the mountains and now we just
dropped back for you we had to walk
there was 40 miles again no way around
it nightmare
fuck so yeah it was really tricky
there's the source around that area
really sensitive and it was just and
then we found that the locals would call
the police as well they would radio to
the next girl to the next girl to the
next girl until eventually there was
cellphone signal and they would call the
police and the police would often rock
up at 2 3 o'clock in the morning just
our tent at the location bang on they
rocked up like what are you doing here
so we found out that the locals were
amazing very hospitable but they were
worried and they didn't know if it's in
a Western ado do they report it will
there be in trouble if they don't report
it so they did so it came and pretty
much went from Mission Yangtze to almost
Mission escape and evade we had to
escape the sensitive region that we were
in but we had to evade the locals
because we realize that it was them
calling the the priests that went off
about three weeks maybe think that you
were an escaped fugitive right yeah yeah
do you think of a fugitive in America or
the UK is trying to get away yeah what
better way to just jump into the middle
of nowhere and China Wang yeah that's it
essentially or just again quite threat
from your fugitive yeah yeah maybe some
sort of bank robber type guy that's it
that's a guy ritchie movie so you are
avoiding this sensitive area so this is
a sensitive area that's close to the
tibet and chinese border did you
anticipate any of these things
beforehand like did you guys sit down
with the team like we were then do you
say okay this could go wrong that's
wrong how many games did you figure
could go wrong there's so many things
that could have gone wrong that luckily
didn't this was really sketchy just the
Yangtze is just known it cuts through a
lot of diversity it's a beautiful
stunning part one of the beautiful
places that I've been but there are
sensitivities there's the the elevation
there is the the wildlife there's the
temperatures as well did you see that
video of I don't know if the girls from
China or food
pan it's a turned out to be fake but
she's snowboarding and behind her you
see a bear running yeah I did see that
video yeah yeah is that possible it's
not the videos fake where he's not in
Japan not sure if it's Japan isn't it
might be China I did see they exist in
Japan as well right they do I believe so
can you Jamie I'm sorry I'm double
Google asking you yeah bring you one
yeah it's a fun video to watch
so she was oblivious she I don't think
it's real I think someone just did some
cool shit with CGI but it looks pretty
good yeah it looks yeah it looks like if
it was in a movie like oh fuck oh fuck
because the girls got headphones on
she's rockin out yeah
this is my cycle is well recently it was
India just Sprint's across the road and
how fast it was going see here it is so
it's really well made whoever did it
it's like she's got a GoPro yeah it's on
the ground and then as she's going down
the hill and her snowboard at a certain
point in time you looking to see a
fucking bear and she has no idea she's
laughing and everything's cool and then
watch it turn to the side again yeah I
think you see the bear my terrifying
there it is yeah yeah that's the second
one is where I'm skeptical because it
seems like this fuck it looks pretty
good there it's pretty damn good doesn't
it that would be hard to do yeah a bear
just gave up at that point
yeah and that chick is flying I have
never snowboarded from what I've heard
from my friends when you snowboard yeah
you two break your head see feet go up
in the air and your head goes down yeah
it's easy to break your head this
supposed to be Japan yeah I've got that
Tiger one that's I gonna ever see the
one with the dudes I think he's in India
they're on a bike like a motorized it's
the one I'm talking though trackers
chasing the plan yeah yeah get some it
almost gets it yeah it does that's
definitely chasing them too
yeah dude that's hat you're fine that is
fucking horrific here we go here it is
so these guys are latest tiger just
going for it
almost got him almost got him on right
about then my Jews renlund right there
is wishing he had the cash for a bigger
engine Wow this right there right there
is when you oh my god what a killing
machine and what's so beautiful what a
fucked up way to die from like a most
beautiful thing that you ever created if
a tiger wasn't a murderous horrific
predator that definitely eats people you
would look at and go it was in a movie
like Avatar something like that a tiger
doesn't even look like a real creature
see it's so beautiful stunning now
beautiful creatures only beautiful and
spectacular and murderous terrifying
it's chasing you on a moped Oh
speed as well same with a bay think
they're gonna be slow but they can oh
they've run way faster than people they
run fast and Usain Bolt didn't get away
from a bear and all they need is one
little ankle pick yeah
one little just get that ankle woo you
go flying in the air
I see at first they tear you apart came
across your footprints and we believe
that the bare footprints were fairly
fresh
maybe maybe passed our set exact track
that we were on in West China showing
with your hand how about you was maybe
about this big
Oh fucking got a patron on the Instagram
that's big dude you got a video actually
suspend Mastiffs as well gotta better
myself in a nuts to me trying to attack
me really yeah the guy just steps in
froze the stone you don't see that bit
but yeah there you go
um that's a pretty good size that's not
that's not as big as I was thinking but
that's its front pool isn't it yeah I
think yeah I'm not I mean it's like the
back pool is almost like a human
footprint isn't it well the big brown
bears they have there's a photograph a
famous photograph of a woman who is a
she's a wildlife biologist they had
tagged this grizzly like to put a collar
on it or find its location or something
like that maybe do a test on it and
she's holding its foot up and it is
literally like a huge dinner plate the
foot see if you find that picture of God
know what biologist holds up yeah well I
saw that one actually
what's the Grizzlies part yeah it is
fucking huge and the claws on it yeah
it's like it's wide as my chest
that's what the the barefoot looks like
and she's holy look at the fucking size
you don't you don't stunned it so crazy
it's so crazy that nature created that
just a clean up system for the fucking
woods and I think with a lamp
yeah anything that's fucking around
places it shouldn't be you're having too
many babies who I smell I'm coming to
get them done dark bar and you're you're
out there with these things and you just
have a little tent and nowhere yeah and
no weapons and there's really three of
you or four of you there was three for
the first three weeks and then there was
two of us for four days then from then
on it was pretty much solo most of the
way for the first sort of half of the
expedition and then the second half was
super interactive opened it up people
would join in oh so we're gonna do about
it
yeah it was burnt pretty big in in China
we'd have journalists we'd have Chinese
celebrities and then we walk with you
and they would Trek with us yeah
sometime organize events would be rock
climbing would be teaching them out of
belay off the cliff and we're like do
they have Instagram China no so I had to
get all of the different social media
platforms for bigger that's pig's liver
whoa
so they marinate it in vodka and Chile
drinking it no you blowing it up blowing
up that's paschal womb so that's like a
rare delicacy can eat it raw straight
from the Yangtze River how sick did you
get yeah they have some serious stomach
bugs over the past decade IV and all
sorts the lot so there's like them
towards the east so it was super
interactive as well it was so these kids
all knew that you were doing this yeah
yeah there's a news channel there as
well and we crane a documentary oh
that's pretty cool
one point a good heart out yeah mazing
Hospital they was so friendly at one
point
adidas got wind of it and they invited
me out to launched you know Jet Li yes
yeah they a co-branded range between
himself and Adidas it was like a photo
shoot GQ adidas and Jackie Huang who's
like a big movie star and I just jumped
at the chance it was one day off one day
in in Shanghai straight back into the
wilderness and that was crazy contrast
one minute in the wilderness next minute
flying out to Shanghai got all of these
stylists makeup artists like whoa
photo shoot boof
back yeah and I was good they wanted
like a face of the East's represent the
brand but also a face from the West came
from nowhere so it was great you know
lots of people star get wind on it again
I'd say a star I think eight to nine
different social media channels in in
China so they have their own platforms
they don't have Google instagrams buying
YouTube etc so yeah add a great team
onion films and Beijing you you really
help support sets all of this up
translate in is there a certain point
time knowing these people going with you
they like a pro I'm done you're on your
own and was that kind of weird like when
the crowds yeah yeah yeah I want to be
yourself again yes the second half of
the expedition it was okay
so it's coming across many people but
the first half oh man the first half it
got quite difficult yeah it was lonely
at times it was boring like though
hiking I don't really a sounds fun I
don't want to particularly enjoy that
the hiking the walking chose to do for
right and get pretty boring its average
everyday like I don't really like
porridge I said it's it's actually it's
the survival it's the challenges and
it's the people you meet along the way
you know so did you ever have a point
where you had large groups of people
would then not yeah quite often yeah I
think that the largest we had was about
35 or 40 people and then afterwards they
went away afterwards they went away as I
said back on the grind the emotion
family must be the weird part yeah a
bunch of people join in with you yeah
and then they're gone
that's it and then you just still
trudging yeah and you've got a you know
keep going guessing so welcome podcast
on the earphones isn't it crack there's
only two hundred ninety days to go look
on the bright side yeah that's it and
the first part was more so because the
second half there was lots of people is
very interactive the first half like I
had a UK photographer fly out
Martin Lyons and he joined me was
supposed to join me for two weeks but
there was a terrifying unlike any much
it was it just blocked the way and there
was only two options to cross and again
you know this is in his profession
that's not what he does he's a
photographer so he's come into my world
and he's you know seeing these two
options either one could go terribly
wrong you drop in a hell of a distance
and you straight into the Yangtze River
so he was supposed to join me for two
weeks but he ended up going back on day
number one after six hours just because
the the danger of trying to cross it and
so that for my mindset having company
for two weeks of a good friend of mine
as well from the UK I could speak I can
converse and communicate with to then
having no one but on my own means still
in the wild side of China still bear
still wolves and I'm solo so that hit me
hard outside are you keeping a journal
in your tent at night yeah I would
actually stick to I did on the previous
expeditions with this when I start to
voice memos because it would capture my
my thoughts my feelings my emotions and
so I was especially for the book I was
capturing as much as we possibly could
and you doing this with your phone doing
this with the phone yeah worried about
dropping your phone and losing
everything I was I was I would try each
city I came across I just tried to back
everything up yeah and yeah Wi-Fi are
you allowed to use over there do you
have to use an Android phone on their
system or a Chinese system no no we were
okay I just took my my iPhone connected
to all of their social social media of
course out of my own like bank account
transactions all of that with China so
it was very much on the system right you
can't use Twitter or ins no you gotta
get VPN what is that a virtual private
network that's it yeah but I thought it
was like one of their apps so what are
their apps that you're allowed to use
with their social so they have like
Weibull which is kind of like an
Instagram okay they have a WeChat which
is kind we just clever it's kind of like
a whatsapp merged into Facebook so are
you having the Translate of their their
comments like when they write things or
when they write yet I can but sometimes
it's too many you can't you've got a
right open it open the VPN open up the
Google generate it I'll just send it to
the team the team would actually do most
of the posting for me I send it to the
UK team to post on the International
social media website oh so they can send
them that post then they could put it on
Instagram or Twitter that's safe yeah I
would send them like a voice memo or a
message of text what's it what to say
was there ever an issue with the Chinese
government that you were doing that
through a third party that you were
somehow or another getting the
information out into the real internet
not so much no because even the
satellite that we had to carry I carried
like a another enos satellite
vegan system if you like and that we had
to register with the government and he
had to sign off so they knew what I had
with me and it was with that satellite
that I was able to send to the Beijing
team they would forward on to the UK
team and from there we were able to make
it one of the world's most interact
fists did they have any concern at all
about you using the regular internet
like instead of just using the Chinese
approved social media sites that you
were also using the other ones that were
international that's it using
international and the in China if they
did they have an issue with that at all
the Chinese no not that I'm aware of no
a lot of the Chinese are also on
Instagram as well really yeah
VPN of course yes sorry it's that yeah I
think there's a only a certain amount of
lockdown that they can they can have
that's there's a lot of Chinese
travelers as well so they go to these
foreign countries that yeah you know get
Instagram Twitter they get whoa whoa
yeah the foreign countries so that
that's got to be weird
using their government approved social
media that it feel weird why are you
using it yeah yeah I got so used to
think there was ten or eleven different
social networks that I was on it was
mainly my team so that was just too much
you know do they have more over there
than we do over here yeah I'd say so
and they're well connected their phone
is just like an extension is it
different things in in what way in terms
of you like do they have different apps
they use more often or differently yeah
they house their own up so they have
everything that we have but converted
just just different yeah no I we go on
like we have an issue in this country
with with Huawei and a lot of these
Chinese companies you can't even buy a
huawei phone anymore over in Maya but
the ones that they sell over in China
are super sophisticated let's see
they're like the top of the food chain
comes right on big time and the cameras
as well yeah because that's what all of
the Chinese love as well to be able to
take good photos good videos and that's
just an instant sell with the cameras
come with that phone
yeah they blocked them from Google
though this is where it gets really
interesting that's why I'm asking Google
no longer lets them use Google Apps so
you can't use the Google Play Store so
you have to either sideload apps you get
side load some apps or you have to get
the Huawei version of the apps so I'm
like I wonder if what happened from the
United States trying to stop them from
taking over mmm and they're worried that
it's a branch of the government and
they're gonna get their hands
in all these different enterprises and
businesses and they'll be able to spy on
everything and extract information
because they can do that with their
Huawei devices yeah but it's interesting
that I wonder if leaving them out of the
system will make them create a system
that's better and they don't even need
our system anymore it's almost better to
like yes you know I think that's the way
it's going you know you've done of
Google but they buy the bodies just like
you but they roll people they'll have
whatever their version is of of
Wikipedia that's all government control
that situation now they got so many good
are they I think they've got an app as
well like a delivery app where if the
guy is like one minute late you can
throw a complaint and then it's free
delivery costs pennies is it there's any
one minute yes so sometimes we'll call
I'm gonna be a minute late is it okay
can you not phone in because he won't
get paid then oh wow it's deadline yeah
and like even the bullet trains there's
so advanced the bullet trains leaving on
the second let alone the minute a couple
of seconds before the minute if anything
they're just so sufficient and you see
that there everything's in house they
got things coggan over there if it's
made in China they it's almost like they
don't need the rest of the world that's
the scary thing you know it's really but
it's again a pleasant place to be
admired my friend Martin Berenson who's
here as well say that because he joined
me on mission Yangtze they have this
idea that maybe it might be a little bit
more suppressed and when he joined was I
every one's happy everyone's doing that
Taichi dancing everyone's active strong
sense of community we're part of the
we're part of China was this all over
all over sold over so do you think that
we in America have a misconception or
what it's like to be Chinese yeah yeah
not just in the US UK as well I think I
think most countries yeah do you think
it's because we don't communicate or
because their language is so different
it seems so different because they're
there all the way over there like what
is it yeah I think it's just because
it's so locked off isn't it you know
they're locked off the grid they don't
really shout about what they do i right
now that we were saying before the
amount of solar panels wind farms they
sent I think 19,000 soldiers out to
plant trees but all of that they're not
shouting to get attention that you're
doing it and so I sometimes see that
China aren't doing enough but on the
inside when I'm over in China
- you know you know like whoa we didn't
know about this so I I you know I'm -
supreme as well before I went to China I
thought maybe it's going to be the same
but that's why I go to these places you
know get out there explore its interior
meet the people of the country and yes a
pleasant place to be for sure that's
pretty badass man they get a totally
different view of a country than what
most people do and to do it for a full
year do you think that's gonna be a
place you'd go back and visit now yeah a
hundred percent I think it took off so
well at such immense support there that
uh be ashamed not to to continue it so I
will be going back you know that me and
the teams out there already looking at
next ideas and I'm sure you are so that
is that how it works like how much time
do you take when you're done walking for
a year how much time do you take before
you okay you barely know so as soon as I
got back from Mission Yangtze I had an
Asia tour so I straight back out there
Korea Singapore my and more and back out
to China do lectures I've been out there
four times already it's gonna be aired
on CCTV the documentary and yeah just
TEDx talks as well so I'm all at being
back four or five times already since I
finished only four or five months ago
every month I'm pretty much back out
there when did you do the first one the
first one was the first one Mongolia so
the first year was Mongolia that was
2013 2013 and how long did that took 78
days so it also it all pretty much
started you know living him in Wales
there you know I went from high school
went on to college to do an outdoor
education course I was working various
different so our first job what was it
1415 fish and chip shop four dollars an
hour you grinding away and then I went
into waiting gone then I went into life
garden because I heard that the
lifeguard and money for a young teenager
16 17 is pretty well paid and then it
was from there that I started to save up
as much money as I can got rid of my
little jalopy of a car bought myself a
little bicycle cycle to and from work
just saving the pennies and eventually
left age 19 and the first place I went
was China Great War I was only there for
two weeks I left China when I look back
on the map I thought chart there's a big
place I've barely even touched the
surface you know I need to get myself
back there but after that it was just
Arius reckless extremely low budget
adventures held around Southeast Asia
when I say low budget it's like buying a
bicycle for ten dollars
finding string on the side of the road
that we would use to strap the rucksack
onto the back with no pump no pump no
puncture repair kit we're about to cycle
over Cambodia Vietnam over 1,100 miles
why wouldn't you get a puncture America
just saving the pennies we actually got
at our I know we got a 10 that was $5
found out the hard way it wasn't
waterproof just recklessly silly things
you made it on the bike though made at
the bikes no 17 times and so I was with
my friend my Norma you know both I'm I
named my little elder a ridiculous and I
think the bikes maybe on my Instagram
ridiculous low bicycle bask on the front
a little pink bell off we went both of
us bikes broke 17 times and so how'd you
get them fixed we would rock up a local
at the locals and rock up see if they
can help and they would fix it really
hospitable does somebody have to
translate to you that word did you have
a translator with you
no no so we were just out there we just
you know rocket with a smile I think
smiling is the biggest communication
sign isn't it you don't see you as a
threat that buries a dad at points at
the problem and then they would help me
right if you walk in like a dick with a
flat tire yeah that's not good yeah
that's it exactly yeah yeah so we just
rocker rocker in swords out which is my
dogs hit by mopeds dodged by lorry so
that was the first away from home
adventure I'd say that that was the
catalyst
you said dodged by lorries yeah what
does that mean that the roads were
extremely sketchy okay enough only
toilet trans land they would be like
coming straight down the ER at the
mountain pass I almost saw the brakes
were good probably aware squeezing in
it's going fastest we're like we need to
get off this road man and I came trying
to get it cycle faster and but you know
after that we just found my niche found
my passion for wow this is great as
cheap that's reckless but after that we
were in Thailand we hooked up with a
local guy that said we can cross the
border and to mine more to a community
it's like a Burmese hill tribe and we
can learn jungle survival so we did we
went there and
and this group living out there in the
mountainous jungle region the board of
Tibet and my and more they were teaching
us berries that act as a mosquito
repellent you can pop them rope them in
your skin it will repel the mosquitoes
teenagers
teaching us how to hunt how to gather
what berries or what leaves were edible
what plants weren't edible how to build
rafts and shelters using natural
resources you know normally bamboo
banana leaves as a bed or as a slanted
shelter to for the rainwater to run off
it's amazing we just continued these
sort of adventures around Southeast Asia
hopped over to Australia found some
workers in Australia power and gas I
think it was knocking on people's doors
I thought this isn't miss one not one
I'm traveling for him in a suit now and
you know I remember I was shadowing a my
boss walked up to this Drive and there
was this guy the end of the drive doing
all of these pull-ups at that point I've
become quite unhealthy put a bit more
weight on it wasn't sticking to the
trainer wasn't stick to it to a good
diet and he jumped down he wasn't
interesting the Australian pound gas but
he mentioned something like yeah I
respect you guys out here 40 plus
degrees Celsius I'm Jeanette Fahrenheit
knocking on people's doors in the suits
trying to sell them a good deal and one
of them my boss replied something
cringe-worthy said something like yeah
but we get paid a lot of this you know I
Drive a skyline so unnecessary and the
guy replied the guy who's doing the
pull-ups it's not all about the - the
lifestyle - I don't want a certain that
was a slap in the face for me that's why
I started to travel so the next day I
quit the job got myself a little bike
with my friend again and we just carried
on cycled er so he thinks I'm saying
something douchey that sort of leaned
you in the right direction yeah I was I
was thinking for a while this isn't this
isn't me you know it's foolish yeah yeah
I was doing something that it wasn't
wasn't right but his behavior yeah oh I
know his behavior that was the sort of I
was looking at this guy and I was like
I'm not stood on his side and understood
would not this is the way that I'm going
this is my boss right they would eat
like fast food every single morning you
know KFC and I was just like this isn't
how I man sometimes you just need
someone to say something like that yeah
little messes and I've had a lot of
those little nudges along the way that
if it was
not notes I don't know maybe I would
have just continued and no idea yeah I
think we all have encountered those yeah
sure
so you said you got robbed that one time
where they stole your solar panel that's
it um so yeah what's it seems like you
would get robbed a lot Madagascar
Madagascar was more sketchy I would say
come to Madagascar but yes so just
before after that Australia cycle and
before Mongolia slightly this Lynx is
into the Mongolia it's actually then
working in Thailand because the money
was so low that's fine work as a master
scuba diving instructor but I was also
doing the Muay Thai out in Thailand
which was awesome to see their
discipline you know they'd be in their
shins never done it before
I know I come from a box and by tussles
doing boxing in Wales did you not stick
at all nope
so when I I learned the hard way and
then searched the harder actually that I
you know had the boxing stance left foot
in front and the Muay Thai stance it's
more square on it's different and they
just chucked my leg up instantly Jack
just kick they didn't need to get into
no no fists with me it was just Jack my
leg up the next day I had to cancel work
I couldn't climb out of the ladder with
all of my scuba diving kit because I
couldn't bend my leg and from there I
just corrected I was trained in five six
times a day killing my nerve endings on
the shin I just loved it at a stadium
thigh virgin yeah stadium it was in koh
tao a little island in koh tao so a
guard sail from mainland over to coat on
the winner the loser you can make money
of course you know so that's kind of my
way of paying rent if I warned you to
leave with money if you lose you leave
with nothing really yeah and you've got
the locals around the ringside sort of
banging down on the canvas holding money
up there with a pointing at you or the
pointing at your opponent how do you
know when you take a fight like this
that it's well matched yeah well you
don't really so that was my first
stadium fight and apparently this guy in
my opponent that was his sixth but we
looked similar height he was look to be
maybe more experienced because of the
fighting but hadn't been fighting since
a young age like a lot of the Thais have
you know they start from such younger as
you know and so yeah it was a little bit
my my
right done my trainer it was boss how
many five six months in that's pretty
fast you notice straight to them and you
said you had box before that I posted
before that impeded no not compete so it
was just amateur fighter look at you
yeah wow I was in yes actually playing
around with my my guide but I love it
yeah so you how many fights did you have
over there it was probably about eight
Club fights but only one stadium fight
the one stadium fight was the big one
you know he won that pay for about two
three months worth of accommodation that
was good I needed it you don't do much
money as a scuba diver in Thailand was
for myself so you won your stadium fight
won the stadium fight yeah that's
awesome yeah
what made you stop Mongolia so I love
this lifestyle as do enough like two
years like living in Thailand for two
years but I was like I missed trekking
the Himalayas I missed my time with the
the community the hill tribe and mine
more cycling Vietnam so I was like I
need to do something you know big
something that'll take me to a country
that I'm very unfamiliar with and that
brings in Mongolia so that's the first
world first record not not the first to
attempt though a guy from Britain had
attempted on three occasions
unfortunately evacuate evacuate just
before the halfway tell people the
record is so is the first to walk solo
and unsupported across Mongolia is
length so it's from west to east and we
sit unsupported that mean there's no one
monitoring you at all that's right so
you're you're on your own you track him
by app off from the you know the people
that you see along the way the
communities unsupported mean and
everything that I needed for to make the
journey from starter to end point was in
the trailer that I was pulling and it
was a bog-standard trailer though in a
family friends by God so you said this
trailer away 201 pounds
yeah 120 kilograms which i think is 260
here you are pulling this thing with a
four-point harness first of all that's
hard that's hard to do yeah is it a flat
road like that so this is entering the
Gobi Desert so it's three weeks over the
Altai Mountains five weeks across the
Gobi Desert and a further three weeks up
for the Mongolian steppe so the Altai
Mountains were excruciating you know
it's no suspension of
on the trailer even one little pebble or
stone gets in the way and you know
you're struggling - this is a sandstorm
that I came across there's actually one
of the smaller ones but that's a small
one that's the small one yeah it's so
painful as well you ever been in a Sun
still no so it picks up the stones in
Korea
we've been effect Wow
yeah I can't see anything right well
I've seen some of them that roll into
Iraq yeah soldiers that have taken
videos of them and put them up on social
media it's crazy it looks like something
out of a biblical music money rather
yeah you see the scary there's giant
clouds of dirt have you ever seen those
Jeremy sandstorm pull up sandstorm in
Iraq it's it's what the fuck yeah and
everybody's just got a hunker down yeah
I see it just ride it out like yeah like
I was able to do that go that video is
so fucking bananas outside they're fine
as soon as it hits the wind
oh the disorients a is darkness inside
and you can't hear anything and you're
gonna get intent and you're gonna have
to breathe through that yet there wasn't
one big enough I would say that I had to
hide it was still big but I carried on
walking because sometimes it just come
out of nowhere so I didn't it was more
like this when these whips out the the
wall that you can see in the distance
coming towards you like that good you'll
go back on that Jamie this is how you
see the storm overtakes them and it
literally kills the day and turns it
into night yeah because it blocks out
the Sun this is where it's really crazy
yes I see this guy standing there and
the storm starts to overtake him and
everything starts to get dim and then
after study that look at this difference
in the color so fuss changing as well
yes and now they're in the middle of it
and now it literally blocks out the Sun
cuz they're in the center of that
fucking horrific storm that guy's just
walking around breathing yeah so that
looks more like a dust just storm where
it's so kind of similar but the sand it
moves it depends on the speed of the
wind of a sandstorm you've literally got
to cover up so you saw me with a mask
with I to wear gloves a to wear a fleece
just pounding your skin almost like
sandpaper you know oh so it is how long
that lasts that they would last about
15-20 minutes to keep walking a distance
okay I can I'm walking yeah I did carry
on walking you can see where you're gone
yeah as long as you've got the head in
on the compass just keep going keep
going yeah but you're also following a
track so this was the BSO I almost
actually lost my life in the Gobi Desert
so I was trying to follow a track and
the track is like your lifeline if
you're not following if you're off the
track it could be hundreds of miles the
track is where there's a water source
there's a well always alongside but the
Gobi took me five weeks to get across so
week after week I was suffering slowly
dehydration heat exhaustion slipping
into heatstroke which is usually fatal
at this big 20 litre water container
sort of remember and just rushing in my
last remaining dribbles of water if you
like I was hallucinating got such a bad
state one of the water wells was dry and
I had to push on to the next one the
hope that I had water it was a mix of
hard sand or gravel and soft sand so now
you can imagine pulling the wheels
through soft sand
they were just digging it so I pulling a
concrete block through help oh my god
yeah and I was just I got really skinny
I got really weak the week's went by I
was disoriented I was hallucinating I
was sort of could feel my organs drying
up if you like I was at the point I just
continued to rest under my shells it was
4045 degrees Celsius no breeze no
natural shelter the only shots I could
find it was was underneath the trailer
I remember just lying there on my back
for about 45 minutes to an hour thinking
well done you know I didn't have the
evacuation as the previous guy had no
helicopters going you're gonna come and
rescue me you know the only bucket that
I had was my logistics manager my fixer
in a capital city needed so allow at
least three to four days for him to get
to me and at least another day or two
for him to get me out to safety
or I knew that there was a community
which 100% had water it was about three
or four days Trek away and I continued
and I pretty much passed the option of
pickup at that stage the only way to
make it was pushing on those extra few
days to the community but again for days
it was just too much for housing agony
man absolute agony do all other thoughts
all of the fee
the last well you know I've always but
I've always been a big believer in
breaking my goals down I can visualize
the three or four days of course but
what I could visualize is 100 metres I
could see a hundred metres so I was just
if I can if I can rest for five minutes
not an hour and walk for a hundred
meters and then rest that's all I could
manage before I was just in a mess hide
under my trailer again for another five
minutes if I can continue to do this
maybe by breaking my goals down after
four days of 100 meters I can make it so
the community and I did just about it's
off the radars my urine was almost black
you know it's in a bad way your what was
black I your urine yeah yeah oh my god
so you probably had severe dehydration
yeah I was lucky to make it if that
community wasn't there if it had been
abandoned if the locals were in there I
definitely wouldn't have would have made
it now when you walk into a community
like this how many people were talking
like how big is the community talking
probably five six huts maybe 20 30
people Wow yeah and you just show up so
weird why do you slow pulling a big yet
trailer and then you're like yeah I've
been doing this they go so that's it
so with this this is before I start
feeling bad so with that I to run ahead
of myself set up my camera on a tripod
put it on a video or even a timer and
with this one it was a video cuz I was
trying to show how difficult it was to
pull the trailer through the sand
so as Lina for almost 90 degrees and how
that was that's the same agonizing how
many miles in the soft sand you do so
it's five weeks in the Gobi Desert but
not five weeks worth of soft sand I'd
say maybe a week solid but scattered
over the five weeks folks if you wanna
this we're looking at a photo on the
Instagram of ash pulling this sled
leaning into it like dude you must kick
ass a tug of war all yes please just go
backwards just think about it think
about how much time you spent
dragging a fucking sled your legs must
be made of steel it was painful
it was painful okay yeah everybody has
to recover right yeah basically lifting
a little bit of weight everyday and you
feel each step is just a run of lytic
acids you know you're in
horrible so this is why I was just
resting awful did you worry about
rhabdomyolysis I dunno
no I was not you see I still training in
the Gobi then I was trying to keep my
mind set you know what are you doing I
would try to stay regimented you know I
have no military background of course
but you know the mindset I was trying to
stay focused I would do my push-ups my
sit-ups always been keen into the into
the fitness it's funny actually even
when I came back from Thailand to
attempt this I moved back in with my
parents had no money of course they
allowed me back in with them which was
great and I didn't even have money from
gym membership so had my uncle drop me
off a tractor tire a war a local sledge
hammer
rode on like a bob bit of calisthenics
and I suppose do now in the rain
hardcore conditions of Wales Filipe in
the tractor tire beating it with a
sledgehammer trying to prepare myself
not physically but mentally you know
when you in you as you know you quill
cover five o'clock in the morning you
can hear its howl and with wind waiting
outside the last thing you want to do is
go out and train but I wouldn't have
that option in Mongolia so again you
know that's saying by putting yourself
in more uncomfortable scenarios the more
comfortable you become I was just trying
to do that so did you develop some sort
of a workout program please stick to a
specific routine routine my routine was
just full-on calisthenics so it'd be
with that with the Mongolia I was
training for two three hours a day five
days a week so it was out I think
actually on the Instagram the highlights
there's a section fitness with a few
different clips and it's yeah push-ups
sit-ups pull-up flipping the tractor
tire sledge hammer work I was working on
ticking off all components flexibility
agility balance speed reaction time
coordination and I knew that my inner
core was going to be crucial because
pulling the trailer if you come over a
over a stone you literally your hips are
being pulled left and right so you need
to be agile enough to be able to you
know push on through that that's
interesting about the core I didn't
think of it that way yeah the core is
vital I call of these sort of pull ups
really helped as well for the young did
you have someone coordinating this with
you did you get some advice from like a
physiologist or a personal
Craner I didn't know I'm sort of just
self-taught grew some clips on YouTube
through a lot of it through trial and
error I was training since 1314 you know
based a lot around here calisthenics and
the martial arts help as well I took a
lot from the muay thai and still
implemented that into the into the
training regime I'm just I love it but
body movement it fascinates me I love
the trainer I get supe super ratty as
well if I don't you ain't gonna even
training today and there they went over
to the to the pier got some rings there
how straight oh yeah yeah lost a lot of
weight so I'm trying it you know put
some weight back on me as well I love it
and the fitness is a crucial part
without the fitness there's no way I
would have made these these expeditions
I can only imagine you're just seeing
you pull that sled oh my god that looks
like hell and the fact you're doing a
hundred yards rest for five minutes 100
yards I mean just amazing that your body
didn't break down just from over
exertion amazing what the human body's
capable of in general isn't it yeah and
I had huge fears and massive doubts
before this expedition and that's sort
of my message out to everyone is you
know you're far more capable than you
then you think you're see little doubts
into your mind don't you and that's what
I was doing until Mongolia I was like
you know don't have you fear I think
fear is healthy but doubt can be toxic
on it did you get tested for rhabdo if
your if your pisses that color
I think I did when I got back I was
slightly worried just my organ the what
I was feeling with my organs always like
they were drying up and just needed to
check that everything was still
functioning fine and everything was good
the body recovers fast and I was I was
only 24 I guess then 23 what what how
much weight did you lose by the end of
that so that was 78 days and I lost 13
kilograms in 78 days that's it so yes I
lost 13 kilograms as well off mission
Yanks about spread over a year so that
was like very concentrated loss a lot I
was having a ration pack at 5:30 in the
morning I would add this was two weeks
of the Gobi Desert or a week and a half
when I wake up at 5:00 have a ration
pack at 5:30 and I'd go a whole 14 hours
before I had my my next Russian pack
about 7:30 with no food and burning
insane amount of calories
how many calories do you need a day just
isn't it like that anyway calories if
you doing like nothing if you just did
it you know yeah probably close to 2,000
isn't it it depends though on your body
weight mean if you're just sitting
around obviously it'd be less than some
of those moving around but everybody's
varies mm-hmm that's a crazy thing to do
to slowly starve yourself while you're
pulling a plan and cheese and toast my
mind but you know the guys when I rocked
up to that community super friendly
really nice nice yeah
did you didn't speak through I didn't
speak their language you know one funny
story actually in the Altai mountains it
was a Kazakh family so I'd always try to
eat and rest up with them where I could
so kazakh family in their sort of hot
middle of the Altai rocked up 45 minutes
inside sipping on their I try that tea
eat and whatever they they gave me and
towards the end I was like wow it's been
40 45 minutes I need to make a move now
and just as I was about to say that I
looked at the guy the man at the heart
it was a man in it and his wife a girl
he was looking at me very weird you know
I slightly squinted slightly close like
he's thinking of something you know he
looks over to his wife was GILF and then
he looks back to me back at his wife and
then all of a sudden right there and
then in hand gestures offered me offered
me his wife whoa right there like that
sort of ancient because to do this yeah
he put it to the bed unimportant it
wasn't it I didn't know what to do you
know whoa you know I know that's it
she's yours now bro we just it was
awkward silence for about ten fifteen
say we all exchange and look she was
looking at me I was looking oh I just
put on a fake laugh a couple of seconds
later he laughed with me and I made a
swift exit she continued breastfeeding
the child so sure breastfeeding yeah why
don't you take a piece yeah whoa no is
it one of those things that this
actually happened or will I leave and
having a big joke right now and they're
laughing away the fact that you know you
just never know do you
I'm gonna guess if they live in tents
in the middle of Noah and there's five
tents and takes forever to get there
those people are probably freaks
probably doing some weird freak shit
they probably have no attachment
whatsoever to sexuality
well maybe it's like here don't you like
to be really Hospital I got super
hospitable you know but you do hear old
school exploration I've heared it before
but I didn't think in this generation in
this day and age that still be going on
they're probably living like old school
Mongolians did yeah Wow sexually right
yeah in the Far West so that was a
Kazakh family so they would have come
over the border which is like Mountain
you got the outside Mountain so this was
in Kazakhstan this was West Mongolia
worst one but there's a heavy population
of Kazakh they're the ones that actually
hunt you know the Eagles right in there
the eagle perched on that Handley some
foxes well how different they look
they're there look like the Kazakh is
more of an area that's closer to what
so kazakh has right on there on the
border so you've got Mongolia sandwiched
between Russia up north China down south
it's just the name Kazakh yeah directly
on the on the west
you've got Kazakhstan okay but yeah
another I think that's the second
largest line where a first largest
landlocked country in the world Mongolia
is the second largest landlocked country
in the world
dude you're walking through this yes
thanks tur and that was my first trip
there as well so I didn't have the money
to do a recce like I did with China and
Madagascar I'd never been to the country
I rock it with her with the trailer when
you show up at some one to ten do you
offer some of them something for food
like how do you how do you worked that
out I had a piece of paper translated it
described who I was what I was doing why
I'm here and you're hoping they can read
yeah that's it hoping and some you write
some some couldn't but again you know
you see a guy looking at a mess you know
big beard down looking in pain looking
hungry looking skinny you pretty much no
shower you need shelter food water so
they did every time and they were they
were socially howling are people being
nice to you that's amazing yeah and
that's all I've ever done you know I
just that's a human rate I love it I
love people they're just so so friendly
so hospitable even the UK
cyclin the UK is when I was 20 I was
raising funds for the NSPCC it was
illegal sometimes to camp in a city so
go on knock and so on the door knock
knock do you man if I set up my my ten
in you from God and all by God and
please
why only had the door slammed on me once
it was an old guy probably fell Freni we
just talked to me slum went back inside
Archie Bunker yeah for some families
yeah they were they were fine and that's
amazing that you that but did you have
any funds like could you give them money
for food if they'd weren't willing to
give it to you for free yeah what did I
take so I took paper and pens for
education purposes they love if you can
give their their child like paper pens
the chance will just be their kids would
just be playing with that you know so
you have a like a barter thing going on
yeah almost but sometimes they just
wouldn't accept it they just plainly
simply like no I've had that a lot in
China as well so but you didn't have any
money
I did I have cut yeah I had cash with me
but you never offered anybody any money
for food
ah no did that no yeah no maybe I did
maybe I did yeah but they were just
again they wouldn't accept it Wow
especially if I was sleeping the night I
would a hundred percent I take it nope
no no it stuff it down my trailer they
you know yeah yeah and then I learned
that was it that I learned that it was
offensive to offer them money because
you're in their environment and they
know for themselves if they see I had a
guy once run run me down on a horse back
from the distance coming at me at speed
and it was all just to give me a bottle
to take away with with tea inside was I
try again trying to offer you came a
distance I've been watching you for 10
minutes governor from a distance from a
distance little girl I just to give me
hot water tea so yes I learned that was
offensive to give the money it's almost
saying that I'm better than you I have
money you don't but they're rich in life
they've gone the livestock the products
they want to be given and you're in
their harsh environment sounds like wow
that's that's cool so that's why stuck
to the paper and pens wow that's so what
a life-changing experience that must
have been yeah that's sitting through a
place where you don't know any language
at all meeting these people and having
them take you in and feed you yeah
yeah Elway's incredible didn't renew
your faith in people at all what's that
did it renew your faith in people it did
you know I should say enhanced yeah
everywhere eyes everywhere all over the
different countries and the troubles
that I've done that people have just
been absolutely amazing and I'm always
trying to give back in return sometimes
they'll take you which makes me happy
sometimes they're just not interested
and they're like no I don't want your
money in China there was one that they
gave me loads of food they gave me
accommodation they then gave me
breakfast they gave me three days worth
of food to take away with me along the
Yangtze and they just wouldn't accept my
money would accept anything then I'm
like no you know or the best incredible
Madagascar was a little a little bit
different Madagascar was a beautiful
country but down south it's very
polished people suffered with
malnutrition malaria's big up there
because kill I caught malaria almost
died from it you can't mean that caught
malaria yeah so you weren't unwary and
medication yeah I was on malaria
medication I came across a community
that had this suffering with bubonic
plague such an ancient disease and they
pretty much said I had two guides with
me at this time so they were able to
translate the pretty much said stay in
your tent you know we've had relatives
die we got the suffering with the plague
here that instantly made me feel
unnerving on edge you know there's rats
and dogs running around you go away go
away zipped in so they would do the
cooking and they bought me this eel
smelled a little bit funky but we were
hungry me and my two guys we eat the ER
for the next few days we were suffering
with diarrhea and I believed that the
anti malaria pills they only cover you
up to 80% anyway it was going in one way
out of the other and I didn't have to
for 80% protecting me from the strain of
malaria my caught malaria and I it threw
me back to the Gobi Desert so the
symptoms and signs I was suffering with
felt like I was just suffering with
dehydration
I was I was getting weak and weak I was
losing a lot of weight that was vomiting
and it got to a point where days went by
that I was like this isn't dehydration
this is this is a disease I'm suffering
with something but I pushed on made it
to a community that I knew had Overland
transport how far did you walk with
malaria
I think I probably walked for days or so
with malaria holy shit yeah it was
brutal
oh and but at that time I had no idea
right so I'm like I've dehydrate so I
should drink and drink and thinking I'm
gonna get better soon made it to the
community arrived at one of the nearest
hospitals and she said you potentially
made inside potentially a few hours
before he slipped into a coma and that's
when I realize it was the deadliest
strain of malarious fall suit poram so
you got four different strains of
malaria got the deadliest and he usually
kills you within 24 hours but I believe
I lasted five days because I was taking
the antimalarials and then that one you
can eradicate fully out of your system
now when you're on the anti-malaria
medication and you're shitting yourself
so it doesn't stay in your system are
you taking more of it when you think you
have it I know I wasn't scared sir as
well overdose because you can't you know
you can't you don't know how much you
don't know how much is still in your
system how much are you allowed to take
of it I won't one pill a day it was she
breaths which justin ren was saying that
he experienced toxicity because he was
taking five pills a day
remember when Justin was talking about
that he's yeah we actually researched
that there's been problems with some
troops that get on that anti-malaria
medication and they get really sick from
it yeah it actually doesn't it do
something to your brain yeah
remember that's the mother on that yeah
that's like a strong dose isn't it
what's tougher you want what in time I
was on doxycycline eight I think the
more along the mat merit oh how do I say
how do you say it
Marc Maron old family-owned covers you
about 100% I think my dad was on that
and I said if look win so that's a
different that's right so was this was
stronger but he was on it and he's
gotten it Justin he runs a charity
called fight for the forgotten the old
wells for the pygmies he's dying three
times and what strain is up yeah that
was it yeah yeah I remember him talking
about it because the three lowest rinsky
can actually remain dormant in your
system that's what they said with him he
got it again after he had it malaria
drug
causes brain damage that mimics PTSD
fuckin a malaria drug the drug the drug
us insane not even just before yeah so I
became a partnered up with malaria no
more UK after that because and one side
contracted it I was the look you want to
survive and then as I pushed on still
had four months to go I got a month one
of a five-month journey to walk do
servant from to walk south to north of
Madagascar
someone said eight highest mountain on
the way so it took 155 days this journey
did and it was 1,600 miles slightly
bigger than the Mongolia journey and a
lot of it was just machete in hand
hacking through the jungle leeches
dropping down spider bites hunting
gathering hunting and gathering out
there - yeah in the jungle you know
where you can gather the local so I have
no military background
that's all doing this which is usually
strangest normally a military background
to come in to do the survival but
everything that I've learned I've tried
to get as much knowledge as I possibly
can from the locals so I like the mind
the mind more Hill community Mongolia
how they survive Madagascar what's
edible what isn't edible how to build
raft etc so well I always try to take a
small percent and that's what you can
never take us that's so knowledgeable as
to what they can eat or they can gather
what they can't you know it's a lifetime
isn't it so I just had to try to pick up
as much as I could in a short space of
time but again I was learning as we went
we were yeah doing some hunting doing
some gathering but we were losing weight
yeah at all there was three or four
weeks of jungle territory further up
north of the island and we had a
photographer join us for that one and it
got to a point where they just hated it
I did too
it was the cyclone season we were
covering we were walk-in about 14 hours
a day and we would cover maybe three
miles if we were just hacking through
his sheer dense jungle down mountains
one day we had to turn around and do you
turn and walk three days back on myself
it's a phone out different way up the
mountain puts into perspective now when
you do a you tune in a car right
just the utens yeah three days now when
you say gathering
you mean like stuff to eat stuff so how
do you know what you can eat and what's
not gonna again we tell you we had the
the local guides there so our local
guide max he was nails proper Bushmen we
were collecting chillies that's a great
English statement nails proper his nails
proper Bushmen is an American fuck this
a proper Bushmen what kind of stuff did
you guys gather would eat a lot of fruit
a lot of plant-based coconuts mangoes we
got excited
oh so you see wild mango tree yeah we
just scrambled on up there throw them
down tenrec the little rodents kind of
like head chokes will out the spikes
they've burrow underneath trees I see it
took a shelter with you there's max
that's wild man making this little
campfire yeah cooking under this shelter
so that was a shelter that you use most
the time I was yes as well but yeah
depend on the weather we just get get
this one I sleeping with a lot of creepy
crawlies no Madagascar are you sure how
the boa constrictor the snake but again
yeah you have a machete right did you
keep that bitch gripped in your hands
got a machete everywhere that I went
yeah we got lost a lot of time as a
phone me and Max trying to find our way
and we with the team just got you know
demotivate they just didn't have it in
them and I was the same has me all
broken their blurred got a leech bite
but again I love anything you know I
think no matter what you do you can't
always be motivated and grow become be
disciplined that was the difference we
stayed disciplined and we focused on the
little steps 50 meters rest 50 meters
and rest
I bet nobody appreciates a comfortable
bed like you Oh everything's so
convenient I get back home I I switched
the kettle on I can take a shower I can
do whatever it's gonna toast
push it down it's gonna pop up when it's
done when you're out there you've lit
you gotta stay alert gonna stay focused
yeah attention to the smaller details
for back at home everything's just and
you do appreciate it more you get back
inside wow we don't know how comfortable
we actually have it was great
your gratitude for that stuff must be
off the charts
yeah just from those experience but yeah
now I do suffers awesome sounds I take
it for granted after a few months of be
back just do it yeah throw myself back
to the Malagasy jungle and VI look No
yeah could be worse
that's how many so how many all told of
these crazy journeys have you been on
well over the past decade now so the
three big ones of course the Mongolia
Madagascar and the biggest one the most
ambitious was was Mission Yangtze I
wanted to see a photo of the the Yangtze
River you were talking about yeah I
think on the insta highlights you've got
2019 it starts with but you can see it
goes right from west goes down south
kills back up and ends nice showing high
so there's these three big giant ones
but then there's some other ones yes so
there's the Vietnam Cambodia cycle
that's trekking Himalayas which was a
scary one so we wanted to check the
Himalayas they said that we needed to
buy a permit but we didn't believe that
we did he was like a waif to get money
out of it it was we were shoestring
budget travelers and we were like now we
can do this list let's go
he got it got worse he got to a point
where it was like you know you can't go
there pakistan army roamed the border of
indian himalayas and pakistan himalayas
so you'd go on your knees if you come
across the pakistan army put yeah you
know your thumbs behind your ears and
say Allah who Rigby repeatedly and that
like sort of means Allah have mercy on
me so it's at that point we were like
should we obey all of that they taught
you how to beg for mercy if we came
across the the military as damn much of
an issue I thought that was his way of
trying to scare us to get us to pay for
a permit that we didn't need how much
was a permit I have no idea I should
know this if it was reasonable I would
say probably we yeah we we were such it
was crazy that's so easy you got like
little hammock hammock shops in Vietnam
as we were cycling sometimes we sleep in
the hammock shop it would cost you about
twenty cents for the night in a hammock
sharp hammocks or sense the hammocks
yeah that's a good deal great that Hey
yeah good sleep it's not hot I don't you
toilets don't have any
but so what MX if you're in a real woody
area that seems like not a bad option
yeah yeah did you get one no we're only
stuck to the hammock shots cuz we're on
a bicycle so we were on roads so that
wasn't necessarily what's the hammock
wire
oh you can get super light ones now you
probably get one for kilogram maybe even
yeah around a kilogram I say maybe even
lighter yeah that would be a great way
if as long as there's enough trees that
seem way on yeah that's uh you're taken
away off the ground with all the creepy
crawlies yeah yeah for sure did you get
stung by any creepy cries I did spiders
spiders I was so what went you're
hacking through the jungle you've got
the jungle canopy and the leeches
believe or not oh fuck man how do you
know that's okay so then worried I
didn't feel it you know when it happened
because as you hack hacking through the
jungle you've got loads of bamboo shots
and they all razor-sharp sting round
you've got leeches at the night time you
take your top off and you've got apply
six seven leeches off your body flick
them up then you've got this bite which
infected there's a lot of aloe vera
plants around that area though so you
can just rip off the Olivera
you know that's really infected it looks
so lit up if you click on that photo
with me standing on the rock with a
dragon you notice anything weird about
that image
a bird on your back Gertrude was
Gertrude Gertrude the chicken so in
order to summit the highest mountain in
Madagascar lugar Abreu is is tradition
you must take yourself a white cockerel
protect it keep it alive and it protects
you from the bad spirits and witches of
the rainforest the locals say so I'm all
about respect in the local culture of
course you have to bring a chicken how
long are you carrying this chicken
around how many do and a half weeks
[Laughter]
weeks shit yes that's all in my bag shat
all over my tent it was sleep on Salman
tent wouldn't leave me became
domesticate like a little dog okay yeah
just followed me around everywhere oh my
god oh and a half week chirping in my
ear pray for a little bit of rain
because when it started raining he took
himself inside the back you wouldn't
make noises but came right in 14 hours
you've got this chirping chicken on your
shoulder no is he just perched on your
shoulder or do you he's an asshole
compartment on the on the back so you
haven't strapped in we have zipped in
yay can't really get away no that's why
we Lam out a lot of the time he should
be running training behind us was great
and you got to leave him on top of that
mountain so that was a swarm day is so
ridiculous she's just hanging around
yeah a couple of days yeah video this
chicken hanging around with you
DUI I don't like I do by Jennifer's on
my Instagram that is hilarious
but yeah goal shooing you're just
chilling with a chicken here we go by
the way that guy has like woman's dress
shoes from shoes man said Sam she'd walk
barefoot and it was only one I said
you've literally missed a scorpion by a
foot those sandals on so yeah like a
five year old girl yeah they are right
yeah the nails Bushmen look you don't
give a fuck like yeah he's just there to
hike that is a crazy fucking chicken man
that whole thing that's so strange the
end of it did you eat it no so we have
to set him free on top of it we can't
even take him back down so I was hoping
you'd follow us down you know built a
bit of a bond with a flaming chicken you
know but he then we couldn't eat him
either because
say that the possibly it seems like a
bad idea if you eat them yeah no
barbecue sauce even yeah unless you were
starving right what would you do if
you're stuck in you're starving we have
we would have no choice which we can and
we have no choice and the first but you
would be worried about the spirits
exactly and if we took him down to a
community that community would partly
flip on us you know we'd be introducing
the witches under bad spirits witches
yeah they believe in witches chickens
carry witches with them chicken no which
is a scared of white chickens so that's
why we needed Gertrude that is hilarious
believe in witches which is well they've
got some they got some mad stories as
well so max my guide he said so my take
on it is we were we were in the middle
of this community deep in the jungle
high up in the mountains in the middle
of Madagascar you know the fourth
largest island in the world and we came
across a community and they allowed us
to stay in their little wooden shack
sort of hot and I woke up about two
o'clock in the morning let's say I don't
know what time two o'clock in the
morning and it's max coming in you
should have been sleeping right next to
us it was max my photographer me and
lever and the chicken next to max
Gertrude and he came in with this
machete how you're right it was like
yeah yeah good and his story is that me
lever and Suzanne were all convulsing in
our sleep or shaking and then he looks
up to the door and they hit the
silhouette of this lady was stunned the
outside from the moon stood in the
outside of the door peering in and he
shouted like I you know get away in
Malagasy anyway it was freaked out we
were all furry still cursed I have no I
don't remember any of this I was
thinking now come on you gotta be lying
it takes the machete and then he chases
this witch like figure into the jungle
runs about 100 meters when she enters
the jungle boom she disappears and then
when he walks back to the to the hut he
said you'd stop convulsing you woke up
ash and asked if I was all right and I
was like no and I was like the only one
that I felt I was the only sane one
there saying come on that's got to be a
load of rubbish
Shirley like will use sleepwalking
suffered with a night Sara Mariel and he
said no and the only reason that I
wasn't convulsing is Gertrude was
sleeping next to me
susannah our photographer from Belgium
which is absolutely breaking herself
then you know what's going on we're
always slides have we got the Blair
Witch Project yeah so you're stuck in
this tent now with people that are crazy
yeah the old witches are like peering
into the like you gotta be weirded out
and then or telling me their individual
stories at their which experiences is
well but they were very young you know
there was a time with my two guides we
had many crocodile rivers to cross oh
fuck yeah Monegasque is full of
crocodiles and sometimes they would they
would ask the local community you know
whether it's safe to cross and I would
say how do they know safe to cross and
he replied once well they've made a deal
with the crocodile what do you mean
they've made a deal with the crocodile
so yeah you know they've rocked the
crocodiles have promised that they won't
eat the locals if the locals let them be
and leave them alone so you're gonna
cross that crocodile-infested River on
the hope that some contract has been
signed or some handshake give me photo
proof you know they're like yeah do it
I'm not doing building a raft but I find
it a different way
you know than a raft yeah even oh and we
did it took us four hours to construct a
raft
yeah just to get to the other side never
knew what was in you must have been
shitting your pants they target people
they do this it was three ways to cross
a river cross where the local suggest if
there's no locals cross where there's
white water who wrap it there's not that
either then yeah a raft is the final
option there's a terrifying story about
these explorers that were I think they
were on the Congo mmm and they they were
in kayaks and the guy in front of him
got attacked by a crocodile a guy
watched the crocodile come up grab the
guy flip the kayak under and then pull
pull and then pop the kayak pops up
without the dude in it boom and then the
the guys gone scary scary snatched him
out of the kayak yeah ripped him off the
popped in the row popped him out of the
kayak and the kayak pops up when the
guys like what in the fuck he's right
behind him why this thing happened oh
his boy his boy just got eaten by a
dinosaur
you know and it's crazy muddy river
right it was like fuck what do you do
get to shore get that hack out you see
that no we caught we were again super
vigilant we crossed at the right places
where there was white water and weather
you know raft here maybe they could have
been below but luckily we didn't say we
didn't see them there at all didn't say
no no crocodiles at all no no and it's
all murky water she can't but they can
be Anakin 1961 David Attenborough and
Madagascar warship this guy's gonna feed
it yeah what's he bringing over to feed
them they like so they were just cutting
it up here wondering so this is the
people that think they have a deal with
the crocodiles yeah this is long history
oh yeah muddy yes so they've been
feeding these crocodiles for a long time
that's probably the move feed the
crocodile so the crocodiles don't get
into hunting mmm I mean yeah they want
to preserve energy if they think they
could just show up to the shore and
every day you cha toss them some food
yeah look help and the Crocs know
normally way that people cross and
they'll just try to stay away from human
activity normally but there are stories
of people being taken of course of
course
look how evil that goddamn thing was
that doesn't give a fuck about you know
making a deal with a croc or you know
and they were laughing at me saying yeah
like course we've made a deal obviously
and their life in thinking I'm weird
it's like but they also believe in
witches too but it's interesting like
without the real outside world right
would take away the internet take away
access to education take away all the
things that we think of in the Western
world and then in their world like even
if witches aren't real if they operate
that witches are real they're gonna
they're gonna set these like very
specific patterns things are allowed to
do and things are not they're not
allowed to do and that at least gives
them this idea that carrying that
chicken around is protecting them yeah
you know the chickens gonna protect you
from the bad witches like I say and they
just keep living that like you can't
take a chance yeah take a chance and
abandon the chicken what if you get
killed by a witch
yeah yeah yeah yeah it's stuck in these
patterns because life is so sketchy
there as it is you're surrounded by
dinosaurs you're hacking your way
through fucking
it's almost to protect them as well as
the younger by creating these stories
there was another one that if a leaf
falls if you're resting in the shade
high in Madagascar underneath the tree
therefore leaf drops it means there's a
snake in the tree warning you to get out
from underneath the second leaf drops
it's warning us about to spiral down and
spear through your skull and again I
might that's impossible right
no no so I just wind them up you know
our second leaf dropped and they would
scan I'd still be there like sand under
the tree but I do love that you know
that's why I travel to amazing stories
isn't it people living in so many
different ways big beautiful world lots
to see lots to do and that's why you
know a lot is so of Madagascar upon it
with the lemur Network conservation I've
got 60 organizations on the ground
helping to protect and preserve the
unique biodiversity so with these
expeditions is almost the the record is
like the enticement and motivation but
if but if I can do something worthwhile
and highlight certain issues
so with Mongolia I was actually raising
awareness about climate change and the
effects that has on the nomadic way of
life it gets so cold out there now that
the livestock struggle to survive which
means that the nomads are out of work so
they move to the capital city Willem
Botha to find work but there's now like
a good history Jewett's district you
know that white felt tents a ruts around
in the capital city and it gets free is
one of the coldest capital cities in the
world it's cold they Boone what they can
a lot of it's dirty cold so the clean
coal gets sent to China and plastics so
there's now a smog that covers the
capital city it's a difficult place to
live in the winter only and babies are
last in 3-4 days after birth before that
suffocating oh my god just from the
burning plastic and yet just difficult
to breathe and the doctor just says
evacuate the city
get yourself out so I should try my best
to raise funds for the Red Cross raise
awareness of actually Mongolia you don't
hear go to that picture again make that
extra large a look how crazy that way of
life is yeah there's all these tents
everywhere in the background you see
looks like some wall tents but maybe
some hard structures it looks like
there's a few harbors there yet there'll
be different huts they'll just be most
of them are just tents yeah there's one
building back there a multi-story
building scroll back
is there see that one yes this is not
the story of capital Ulaanbaatar
so you have more even even in the center
you know it's pretty pretty nicely
developed in there but it's crazy right
all dirt roads and what do they doing
with sanitation and sewage yeah again I
don't like hearing that noise yes the
only lack access to drinking water
proper sewage or internal heating yeah
many are reluctant to leave behind the
unique millennial old way of living
yeah just shitting hole in the ground
whatever whatever forever yeah so it's
imagine these were all way to go yeah
these were all out in the wilderness and
the Mongolian wilderness it's absolutely
stunning but they've been forced pretty
much to move eeeh so in the camp let's
stop that please go back up and make
that larger again what is that a
background City what is that a capital
city of Mongolia Willem Botha Wow all
that stuff on the outside is most people
will Street yeah yeah so you can buy it
jobs to like - what - 40 Fahrenheit
fucking amen and so they just need to
stay alive so they burn whatever they
can they can find stay warm Jesus so
there's always you know always
environmental up my heart first and
foremost especially see in the world you
see and it's Rorty you know you're out
madagascar trekking that's wilderness an
80% of all plant life and wildlife found
in Madagascar alone it's found nowhere
else in the world really literally
walking past stuff on the daily basis
thinking you're not found anywhere else
only only native to Madagascar giant
comet moths this big bright yellow -
lemurs over a hundred different species
so I do my best to try to meet up with
as many organizations as I possibly
could it will happen to protect and
expand national parks who were helping
to educate the local supply different
means at work
protect the species living within and
highlight like the press were interested
in the journey but I would direct and
highlight you know that the real unsung
heroes I call them the people volunteer
and doing this day in day out how often
is just a lot of you switch on the TV
and it's just all negative isn't it but
I believe positivity spreads more
positivity so highlight these issues all
of the amazing workers doing their
utmost
to protect the environment and yeah that
make sure you want to do more as well
doesn't it you know yeah well it seems
like it's got to change your just your
frame of reference shifts you've seen so
many things that most people haven't
seen just haven't been to that place and
knowing that there's mass of groups of
people that are living like that that
are burning plastic and the wintertime
to try to stay alive yeah it just shifts
how you view things that's it for sure
yeah and you know once you've seen it
you can't unsee it right it's one of
those where you just want to try to keep
helping where you can that's how many
people are living like that oh right so
there's four million people in Mongolia
but probably about three million are in
the capital city probably half of that
our ger districts nomads we're almost
half maybe so more than a million people
in tent
essentially it's get in that way anyway
yet on the air quality just again so
poor get imagine that just giving birth
the doctors over get-get out the city
Wow there's a high chance that you're
gonna lose your child and and the people
that this day the the older people that
must be taking years off their life yeah
most likely and then in the summer side
and experience in the winter but in the
summer you still got the Gerda Street
but it's warm
we can't see the sky what do these
people do for a living
a lot of the is livestock so they raised
their they yak dairy you know meats that
they'll transport over to the capital
city but they're just out there live in
the purest way of life I remember
walking through a part of Montgomery I
went over eight days without seeing a
single person for eight days like what
how do you want to know what the world
was like I don't know million two
million years ago girlier is the place
that you'll get to experience a bit of
that you know just wilderness just out
there did you encounter any wolves or
anything they're wolves they were the
big awards as well they were gray wolves
I didn't luckily so footprints but you
can see whether that was wild dogs or
wolves I had a wild dog approached my
tent like 2:00 3:00 in the morning
just hit heavy breathing footsteps
outside my tent I'm in the
the gobi desert alone hunting human in
days and I'm there in the middle of a
tent and knife and 100 torch and the
other Sheikh in a journey thinking this
is a person outside I'm showering and
they're not replying unzipped it's like
a wild dog it was fine wasn't aggressive
aggressive but yeah it was just so I
remember my logistics manager my
ulaanbataar based my Mongolia based
logistics manager said to him he Maginot
quiet how silent it's gonna be in the
Gobi Desert and he replied he just said
there's no such thing as silence do you
mean there's no such thing as silence
they have like silence rooms you know
torture panic room silence with the
headphones and whatnot and he was like
I'm not gonna tell you you know you'll
get out there and if you've hit the
right spot of the Gobi Desert you'll
know what I mean and I did I remember I
was just again in the middle of the Gobi
Desert hadn't seen anyone days and there
was no breeze there was no flies there
was no people there was just no noise
pollution whatsoever and I was just
looking around I could just hear this
faint noise almost like a a high-pitched
humming noise very faint though and I
thought it could be like air leaking
from my water container
it could be my trailer so I walked a few
hundred metres away from my trailer and
I could still hear it talk with five to
ten minutes to figure it out that I was
like and as such the point of silence
now so quiet I can hear my own body
functioning and that's what he meant
there's no such thing as silence because
when you're at the point of silence you
can finally hear your own body ticking
over never heared it before never hear
that since look what are you hearing
just the faintest humming noise almost
like it's almost like coming from the
inside it's but you can't not not hear
it as long as you're living as long as
you breathing you're hearing that noise
oh when everywhere and I was just like
yeah nothing about it's my body it's
ticking over
so how long you walk in through the Gobi
Desert here in your body
oh no you when you walk in you can't
really hit when you stop yeah yeah and
it's got to be no wind a lot of the time
it's very breezy those storms you know
you see you're essentially walking
through a dead area right it's lifeless
yeah how much water you have on you when
you're doing this with that so my
container was 20 litres 20 kilograms but
it was never always full that's a lot of
weight that's a lotta weight yeah plus
you have all the other stuff
yeah that's why I have mounted really I
think the trail on its own 40 kilograms
don't know what thousand pounds 60 70
its pounds maybe on an empty load
because it was mild steel she built in
my family friends by garden you know
really yeah just puncture-proof tires
full rubber so it was heavy but it was
robust and then the water container here
20 liters 20 kilograms needed at a
maximum load yeah
so when I was to her effectively I went
through the water when I was really
suffering with the dehydration so at
that point the trailer was a lot lighter
it was under 100 kilograms at that point
but I'm low on water you know right I've
sort of rationing the last remaining
dribbles up to where I make it to the
community so on maximum load a hundred
20 kilograms water was the biggest issue
and always was the biggest issue that's
when the previous guy was was evacuated
on three three occasions which terrified
me as was a Navy soldier desert explorer
I was just a scuba diver boy-toy living
in on a beach in Thailand you know so I
did have my worries I did stop planning
Mongolia as well because of that started
to doubt myself at the same time I
realized you know just because no one's
found a way to do something it doesn't
mean it can't be done what made you feel
like Mongolia was the wildest place
probably because it was really close
like I'm living in Thailand my initial
my initial idea is get a cheap bike ten
dollars psycho to Mongolia cyclocross
Mongolian walk back the other way or
cycle to the stop went in the east and
then walk to the west and a four if I
did that would have died I wouldn't have
made it I was lack of preparation so
that's why I went back home back to the
UK for the right preparation the right
training and again as I say now it's not
like Vietnam the cycle when it was all
very reckless he was all meticulous
planning detailed planning and Mongolia
for me just struck me it's that I was on
the travel route for two years at this
point and I come across people if they
say they plan to go here next I plan to
go there next one they've come from
Cambodia Vietnam but no one had ever
said Mongolia really Sasha's fascinated
home to the Altai mountains the Gobi
does it
you got your reindeer tribal community
up north you've got your Eagle hunters
in the West he camels down south of the
Gobi
these countries fascinating and from
that point on I was just like I wonder
maybe 100 miles let's walk maybe 200 as
I heck why not go for the length when I
started to look for people who'd done it
before it wasn't for any record it's
just for the fascination that's when I
realized I can find any evidence to
suggest that anyone had completed the
sole on and support walk but I did find
the guy who previously attempted and he
was a nice guy responded I asked him
what the dangers are big list the gray
wolves that were nomadic drift is this
stagnant
no well afters it can sometimes be a
problem yeah drawing without got on
their hosts though Rome and their big
that big Mongolians wrestling's their
sport
so that's stocky it's in the history as
well as in it with chingus Chinggis
Khaan as cold as we know it yeah you
know but the air they can they could be
big in issue and he just sent this huge
listen I was like yeah maybe I'll look
for a different country maybe I'll walk
across the European country or something
it's a while I didn't know much about
and ton listen to Dan Carlin's hardcore
history piece on Genghis Khan right yeah
I think it's five episodes and saying
you just realize like how do I not know
all this like how many people they
killed the Mongols you know they're
Mikolka half the world or the world and
they would rock up in the dead of winter
and walk up a Russia's border and they
wouldn't they just slit the jugular of
the horse
yeah and drank some blood I would healed
yeah they would they would use that to
stay alive then they apparently killed
so many people that they altered the
carbon footprint of human beings on
earth during King it's Khan's lifetime I
think that during his lifetime they
killed ten percent of the population of
the planet geez as many as they don't
know the real number they think is the
low number I think they were saying like
50 million the high number was over a
hundred million people were killed by
Genghis Khan during his lifetime by his
fucked so much yeah he fucked so much he
left so much DNA out there it's a five
simple three easy percentage of people
have ginga's Khan's DNA
to this day us insane as Iceman nuts
nuts to that it went away it's like you
had this military genius that came along
at the right time you know with they had
these massive skill with archery and
bows and arrows and catapults and just
strategy they were just really good at
figured out how to take over cities they
invented the the bulletproof vest as
well don't they did they invent that
yeah they realized that the the biggest
concerns it was sold to losing soldiers
it was from the the air oh yeah I kept
taking his men out so we want he came up
with an idea how can we possibly chain
me or something yeah and it was the hie
male straight over a vest I find they
had had that before maybe I don't know
and it's the shy I was shocked to see V
I went to like a museum and that was the
you know the Schwartz ticker the Nazi
symbol yeah Okinawa had that as well so
did India yeah it was a different thing
I was way back you know a few years ago
it was Hitler just ruin the cool design
yeah yeah yeah Hitler ruined a cool
design I mean you can never bring that
back oh hey man I'm just really into
Okinawan karate because I went to a
martial arts supply store in the 90s
yeah and they had swastika and I was
like what in the fuck is this yeah and
then apparently was just a part of
Okinawa and okinawa karate that symbol
was very common so yeah pre-world War
two well nobody knew what it was yeah
jingis there's a there's a place I think
it's in West Hills there's an Indian
temple and this Indian temple is covered
with swastikas and they had explained
that the construction of the temple and
the designs on it predate the Nazi
adoption of this symbol yeah it was let
me imagine look look what Hitler did to
that fucking mustache you know that's no
one can have that you know all the
people in the world it's crazy and he
ruined a mustache like not to say that
anybody should have it but there's I
don't remember ever a time where someone
was such a piece of shit that they're
ruined a hairstyle
but you can never have so many years old
I mean think of uh I mean there's no
other mustache that's not no other
hairstyle no other
no just as a shoe thing you just ruined
the whole thing
but this see you find that Indian temple
I think it's in West Hills
I think what's the date how long you
think it's big one in chino hills'
wears chino hills' doesn't look like
this no no that's beautiful
no this one doesn't look that cool
maybe I'm see that's a nope that's
different too
I don't I think it's an Indian temple I
don't necessarily think it's Hindu I
think it's an Indian let's just sculpt
them it signs all over that's what I
searched and originally in this little
job that's so pretty
anyway he's anyway the use of the
swastika for whatever reason the Nazis
just decided to look cool yeah walked
everything up that's it
yeah he did he take inspiration as well
from like Chinggis Khaan that's why I
used it they won't get almost off the
world and he wanted to go in that
dialogue really I think that's what
someone told me hmm I don't know it
makes sense as well we're not worried he
was trying to do exactly what yeah Angus
Condit but it's interesting that there
are these people in history this sort of
shift you know of the civilization in a
certain way where they just become
incredibly dominant and conquer every
yeah there's a few of these people
throughout history they pop up and then
BOOM everything changes because of them
I see it and he's a big one Massey
you're in this area knowing the kind of
history that's involved in this place
like what did it feel knowing like how
many battles took place on that land
yeah you can and fairly recently right
yeah really is the twelve hundreds
that's it oh yeah and you can see how
that the fields are must actually don't
bite like guy who run after you know us
on his horseback you came to deliver me
the bottle of tea yeah imagine that in
there in the thousands the noise it
would make like I could see him he was a
dot in the distance talking about 10
maybe 15 minutes to get to me imagine a
whole line of the soldiers you know
warriors Chingiz and
hyah run into what the noise are you'd
be terrified wouldn't ya and this must
land as well the step just goes on just
rolling fields of grass forever right
yeah I'd see a girl in the distance it
would be like a little dot in the
distance I'd wake up in the morning and
I'd know it's gonna send me a full day
to get there that's that's comforting i
affected Lee you know it save me a whole
difficult day just to get there it's got
to you're about fast ballsy man to take
that on that is a that is a courageous
journey and one of many that you've done
it's gotta be a weird feeling to be
walking around regular people that have
never experienced all the crazy shit
like if you're around privileged people
that are like really kind of soft it's
civilized and do you almost want to take
them with you okay this will help you
yeah yeah no for sure for sure and I
think for the younger generation it's
great isn't it I'd love to yeah and it's
also the the mental health side the
mindset you know take someone out let
it's a Mongolia with the jungles of
Madagascar or towards the source of the
Yangtze in I know you just appreciate it
you have more faith in humanity if they
what a beautiful world we live in they
do things like that with troubled kids
yeah my friend Dan Doty
he's do it he would uh they would take
kids that were all fucked up and all
sorts of problems in school yeah and he
would take them camping just reconnect
them to take him up there for a little
longer months at a time yeah they'd live
off the land they would fish and they
would there's a live in tents and you
know come back with a reset mindset
where yeah
stop pushing the little things like
caliber toasters OD about you know you
know that old expression you can't
really appreciate the Sun unless you've
experienced the rain yeah some soldiers
pression but it really it seems to be
true you know who had that I think Dylan
Danis had that on his fucking Instagram
post yeah really
when he was sparring with Conor McGregor
you obviously mean Connors raining on
them yeah but don't ya well Connors
fighting this weekend who'd you ekans go
to it's ask you that you can't
appreciate a son if you've never stood
in the rain so truth so true ancient
saying that is a hundred percent
accurate
if I find Cerrone isn't he oh yeah yeah
yes yeah a couple days so yeah today's
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
Saturday yeah who do you think I do not
know my friend no I never predict fights
because I think it might feel
disrespectful if we were alone I would
tell you my thoughts mm-hmm no but not
in this one in this yeah
in this one I feel like this is a
legitimate 5050 property yeah yeah same
I don't know as a warrior if both
warriors could go either way
well also skill-wise yeah look at this
guy look at a bunch of different things
so look at damage Age skill motivation
and then like past results going all
these things yeah when you look at all
those things you you give Connor a
slight advantage with stand up like with
his speed he's very explosive and he
tends to knock guys out like not
left-handed left has a piss so explosive
it tends to catch guys with a lot of
explosive punches yeah very fast whereas
cowboy is more of a steady pace where's
on you but there's also finish head kick
yeah has the most finishes in UFC
history most submissions I believe he
has the most records doesn't he only a
lot of records a lot of records against
you know he's fought nothing with tough
guys like for a long fucking time and
head kick it and strangle and tough guys
how old is he now cowboy I think is 36
six yeah and Connor I think it's 31 when
is it yeah so right does it say
I think 31 makes sense Connor has less
miles on them for sure but Cowboys never
looked better than he's had over the
last few years and you give him a fight
where you can really get up and this is
a fight where it's like oh really I mean
this is the red panties night you know
Connor always talks about resting is it
yeah everybody's gonna tune into that
fight a jelly giant fight it's a giant
prop and it's also an interesting fight
because even though both guys are not
title holders yeah it's still a
five-round fight that has the same super
fight feel that any other world title I
would have yeah you want to see that
fight it does the world title I've been
arguing this forever it's very important
it's always good to know Camero who's
mon is the
170 pounds fighter in the world it's
proven because he has the world title
and he yeah they would beat Woodley and
then he'd be Coco yeah I agree that
that's important but I also agree that
that's not required for a great fight
what's required is a great matchup and
this is a great matchup this to me is a
pay-per-view batch up like I mean I am
that could genuinely go either way and
I'm working the event but if I wasn't
working the event I'd be like what is
happening here yeah how does that go now
yeah how does that go down you know I
don't know how it goes down it might be
Connor
tries to catch him real quick with a
straight left it might be cowboy takes
him down it might be cowboy tries to
kick his legs on the outside it might
you know it might be you know Connor
takes a slower approach because he
thinks that cowboy strategy is for him
to wear himself out in the first round
so maybe Connor fights light light and
easy in the first yeah maybe he looks to
prove a point you know who to go the
long run just in case well not just that
he has gone he's gone heavy as he bolt
up more so 3rd 4th 5th round it's gonna
be struggling joints wise it could be he
could also I don't think so he's I don't
think he's bulked up as much as he's not
cutting weight right I mean to you
starving himself to make 145 155 is more
comfortable for him 175 is no weight
cutting so I think he's probably gonna
be walking around just a little bit over
that I know Donald is Donald I think
Donald in the video said he was walking
around somewhere around 177 178 so
that's nothing that's nothing that's a
day in the sauna and Don's on weight
yeah and then cowboy just rehydrates and
he's good to go and he's done it a
hundred times he's oh yeah he's well
he's better I think he's better
physically like without the drain you
know and I think size-wise he's better
as a 55 because those big giant guys
like Darren till at 170 are just a
little bit too much a little bit too
powerful like but I think that at 170
with Conor at 170 they're both guys were
55 pounds they're just not cutting
weight Kelly yeah so there's no I don't
think there's an advantage pretty either
one of them I think it's great and I
think I would love to see that trend or
guys just fight at their natural weight
cuz I think it's terrible for your
kidneys it's terrible your system you
know anybody did it involuntarily
yeah I mean that's when you're dying
like that and you're dehydrated that's
how those guys are that yeah the way in
and then they have to have a fact cage
fight 21 hours later it's crazy yeah
made in 30 40 maybe 35 hours later at
the most right for cuz they're weighing
in the morning and then it's probably
another 12 or so I mean shit the fight
can they just go straight back to it i
hydrated no what should the work they
could have broken into that gently yeah
you got to bring into it gently yeah do
it carefully depending upon how much
you've lost of course but some guys
there's some guys that were enormous and
they would they would go through radical
weight cuts right and then for them it
was very important that they didn't
shock their system Andrea and some guys
did shock their system and then they had
to pull out of fights their body was
like fuckin what do you do there's an
over feeding thing that can happen to
you when you just eat too much and your
body doesn't know what the fuck to do
why it goes into a state of shock
yeah and you've been starving yourself
for so long it's hard you know and I
just don't store in the fact that I
found like after the expedition's if I
weren't really skinny and started eating
a lot four notes of weight super fast
your body's probably it's doing the fun
yeah thinks you're gonna do it again
it's amazing crazy your Bible that's the
thing they think about knockouts
- when fighters get knocked out it's
easier for them to get knocked out
afterwards yeah really yeah it's not
just about damage it's about the body
recognizing what's going on and trying
to prevent further damage by shutting
itself off yeah yeah cuz it thinks
you're gonna just take the punishment
and it's it's easy it thinks it's easy
if it just shuts off it'll be better you
say your body just go fuck guys check
please let stuff down old fighters you
know they did lose their ability to take
a shot oh yeah so I would imagine that
was the same with all the methods of the
body if you dehydrate yourself it's
probably easier for your body to go into
kidney shock later yeah but it's like
hey asshole you got to stop doing this
yeah yeah yeah for sure probably harder
for you hmm
like when you think about these things
do you worry that you've done these
gigantic ones in Mongolia and Madagascar
and now in China do you worry that
you're gonna have to outdo the China one
the China one was a whole fucking year
yeah yeah oh yeah ridiculous really
isn't it do you worry that okay now I'm
gonna walk across the whole world but if
I said that to you
no no I'm you know the business is taken
off but there's a lot you got the
expedition's but then you've got let the
books the promotion's my endorsements
everything as you know the tools that go
on on the outside of that so you don't
feel obligated to try to kill yourself
no I want to get them yeah I want to get
them shorter definitely shorter shorter
52 days is ridiculous but people are not
gonna want that man you already fucked
up yeah it's like if you meet a girl
she's your favorite girl ever and you're
like oh my god she's the one and you
show up at her house with a dozen roses
and then you don't have a dozen roses in
there so like this motherfucker
appreciate me yeah that's it that's it
I think if we can make it just as
extreme just as ambitious even more so
interactive
I loved the interactivity man that's and
do it with a good all I wanted it with
WWF in in China so I want to work with
them again okay that's not wrestling no
how the fuck did they use WWF and WWF
was wrestling for so wrong they did sue
them didn't they I think WWE World
Wildlife Fund Hudson they won so whoo
World Wildlife Fund one became WWE dusty
yeah I didn't know that I thought it was
I hate the only recently I thought whoa
yes I thought that it was because they
had to admit that they were scripted so
they call the entertainment whether the
federation / world wrestling
entertainment it was conflict with the
world wildlife yeah that's interesting
no make sense yeah well they were first
there before Pro Wrestling yeah yeah
maybe after I think that just the power
its global isn't it worldwide my fund
visit yeah all over all over so on
potentially just cuz the size of what
excites you when you start thinking
about your options for potential future
trips do you have anything that like
seems like really bonkers
that excites you what about walking all
the way across Africa huh yeah you know
something that has always fascinated I'm
not ruling it out it's always
potentially an option but I've always
been drawn to the Congo do is being
drawn to the Congo and I was Justin talk
my friend Joe yes workers up yeah no for
sure because he said he's currently got
a new parasite that they don't they
don't yeah he's had it for more than
seven and I think more than eight months
yeah and they don't know what it is oh
yeah yeah they think he might even be
the first person that they've ever
diagnosed with it because he caught it
so deep in the Congo and a lot of these
people that are catching parasites and
of you know and could be an evolving
parasite - yeah yeah the congos of
others also was there there's vibrant
ecosystem of all kinds of different
majors
so what's he suffering with what success
he's got all kinds of problems
he's on also all sorts of anti
anti-parasitic medication but he's who's
saying that after he worked out he had
to get into the shower because he was
shivering had to turn on the hot water
like his yeah good pale and he was
shivering I think it might be in his
brain they don't they don't know what's
going on that's even worse isn't it the
fact that they don't know what's going
on they don't know how to help him and
he's got brilliant doctors have been
working with him for months
they're trying to run the run these
batteries of tacit he detailed it on the
show and he's such a nice guy
music one of the most selfless people
I've ever met yeah while he's talking
about it he wants to start praising the
doctor and telling me I should get the
doctor on the podcast and I say hey
what's going on with you man tells me
he's like even in describing his own
life-threatening illness he's trying to
promote people and help him out nazy
that's that's the way forward isn't it
that's the way I like it man I mean yeah
he's got it it's a wonderful story I
don't know if you ever heard it but it's
I don't use that word wonderful that
often but with him I do
it's like was bleeding he was bullied
when he was a kid yeah and then got into
fighting and then became depressed and
was a UFC top heavyweight and left he
won he was not didn't win the ultimate
fighter but it was one of the top guys
in the Ultimate Fighter and then he left
the UFC and just started to do all this
work in the Congo
and started to build well so the pygmies
and then decided to come back to
fighting just to sort of raise awareness
for the Congo and start the foundation
yeah so he starts his fight for the
Forgotten foundation starts his fighting
career off again comes one of the top
heavyweights for Bellator
malaria three times three times and
keeps going back and forth to the Congo
to spend these long trips out there but
in the process he's gotten really sick
the last one he doesn't know what he
looks great still but he still fucking
with him yeah what not was he I don't
know I mean they were just gonna find
what it is and hoping that these
anti-parasitic medications are putting
on they have an effect on whatever it is
yeah maybe it goes away I don't know man
they the worry for me is when someone
says they might it might have gotten
into his brain I'm like what is that
what is it what happens then what
something's in your fuckin brain like
what's going on in there terrify you see
what have you seen the disease yes was
it with the womb yes okay I balls yes
you see it yeah we played that on the
podcast we played the video of it yeah
it was frogs right and people - can't
people get it people can get it - yeah
dude then you're gonna go in there I was
that not so much anymore you've just put
me off but no this was I was planning to
walk I was looking into walk in the
Congo before the Yangtze the Yangtze
mate made more sense but now after that
I'm like no no if I'm going to the Congo
it wouldn't be the duration of hike in a
river that would take probably over the
years shorter so much more dangerous you
know got everything there so well maybe
we'll just stick to a two-week holiday
in the Congo a and plan my journeys
elsewhere if you go to the Congo you
gotta go walk through the stretch that
has that giant chimp living in it do you
know that giant chimp
was it what's this about the bondo ape
the Bund oh yeah it's a larger version
of the chimpanzee it's like six feet
tall huge 200-plus pounds the locals
call him lion killers really yeah they
nest on the corner and we got an image
of where they nest on the ground like
gorillas yeah yeah well this one is not
that this is in images of dead ones see
if you can go to theirs if you just
google bondo ape there's some really
good see that one in the upper left hand
corner Jamie
yeah but that picture mmm I don't think
is real I want to say that's fake congos
giant bondo 8 we see how that would show
those people with the dead one okay good
make that larger please can you just
make the there you go that is that's the
first evidence of one that they ever
found
Wow and then they shot this thing and
they took pictures of but I believe that
was in the 1930s and then they got
another one that they shot at an airport
and these guys are posing with this
thing see if you can find them what
that's it at the bottom the very bottom
that right there
bang look at that go go fullscreen the
one below it yeah look at that make that
larger look at the size of them fucking
chimp so that is this thing that they
call the bondo ape but it has a crest on
its skull like a gorilla yeah yeah it's
not like it's not skulls not shaped like
a chimpanzee skull and so go back to the
picture please that's okay that's big
enough but because it's not a very clear
picture anyway so these guys shot this
at an airport and look at the hog on too
but the size of that thing I mean look
at the men behind it I don't know how
big they are but let's assume they're
tiny in their 5 foot 5 that thing is 510
511 yeah you're probably well north of
200 pounds a channel oh my god I rip you
to pieces yeah but the cool thing is is
this is a weird subspecies that's only
in this I think it's called Billy in the
Congo and they call it they either call
it the Billy ape or they call it the the
bondo ape but it's an enormous but sure
up stop picture day where the guys are
either side holding it up I'm sure I've
seen that so Google bondo ape camera
trap photo there's a camera trap photo
of one of them walking upright and it's
about 6 feet tall upper left-hand corner
that one yeah they said by measuring
this stuff around it yeah they think
that that is a six foot tall chimpanzee
walking through the fucking jungle and
that's this guy there's a guy named Carl
Aman he's a I think he's from
Switzerland he's a wildlife photographer
and he spent
a considerable amount of time trying to
find these things and take photos of
them because of all the descriptions
that the the natives have these enormous
chimpanzees they got video of one of
them eating a Jaguar they don't know if
it killed it or if it found it dead but
some locals Paul said lots in the Congo
is that you know in Billy well yeah I
think it's called bi Li it's not a large
place but it's incredibly dense jungle
it's very hard to get to where for a
long time it was just legend but now
they have actual video of them they have
photograph they have scat samples DNA
and then they have the skulls the skulls
that are not quite gorilla and not quite
chimpanzee Collett yeah when they first
got I'm pretty sure they thought it was
a hybrid they thought like a gorilla
fuck - Champa come here bro
yeah and then now they think it's a
totally different subspecies of
chimpanzee so there is a nearly yulie
forest so that's where you got to go bro
yeah that's not far from the sort that
looks like a source there yeah could you
go through there so that area looks
small but it's probably awesome Florida
the area where these things mean those
from a young age you hear all sorts of
stories about the Congo isn't it wider
than the contiguous United States I
think the Congo itself is wider than the
United States I think there's more
landmass in the Congo there's an amazing
BBC documentary on the Congo from many
years ago yeah I think it was like from
the 90s but they spent a 29 times the
United States is 29 times bigger than
the Congo okay well hold on stop stop
two hundred and three hundred forty two
thousand square kilometres but the width
of it I think it's the whiff mmm only
five million people size of it oh that's
it okay no it's not okay it's not as
wide it's some it's close Texas yeah
it's like it's bigger than Texas for
sure it's like Texas and California and
maybe like one other states man there it
looks like it's like 30% of the United
States still a lot wilderness that there
was no yeah man and if there's a fucking
giant chimp living in there yeah kinds
of other shit all sorts all sorts have
you seen that a shoe bill
bird that lives there no oh my god it's
a five foot tall dinosaur of a bird is
an enormous face his face is like this
big and it looks like like it doesn't
look real like a with the way that you
described it maybe photos videos oh the
face that they have there there's some
great high-resolution photos of the shoe
bill will you look at them in the eye
and you're like what the fuck is that is
that real they look like the most
ferocious looking bird it looked like
that right there yeah imagine walking
through wake you up and see you not
looking down at ya or walking through
the jungle and you part some leaves and
that fuck we came across you know
elevated elephant boots I think David
Attenborough elephant Birds elephant
Birds think David Attenborough first
discovered it all went to Madagascar
because he was fascinated by the
elephant bird went extinct I don't know
how long ago put their eggs were about
there about was half a foot like a
football yeah almost like a rugby ball
football yeah in in size oh there we go
oh my god be painful so big look at the
size of that fucker oh look at that
goose Harrison with an ostrich oh my god
there you go yeah holy fuck and these
were big but I came across the elephant
boot eggshells they're about this thick
as well maybe quarter half a centimeter
and thick in thickness and they're just
scattered across the southern beaches of
Madagascar in their thousands so this
thing is still alive no they're extinct
it's just the big bags are still there
yeah there you go as David a super I
think you bought one box in Cardiff
which is the capital city there's that
many of them you can just go get one
this ow yeah just crushed cuz they're so
thick or look at that compare it just
last forever
oh holy shit they're huge
how many years ago they went extinct she
was couple thousand how many of these
things have been capped or collected I'm
not too sure don't know how many why did
they ever disappear what does it say
human people well yeah I believe it was
the humans wasn't roll down humans may
not be
to blame Oh goddamn pop-ups get us every
time
Wow immense that's huge though isn't it
yeah but do you ever see the ones they
had in North America the terror birds no
oh fuck they had seven feet tall
murderous carnivorous birds that
couldn't fly running around North
America geez
yeah pull up terror Birds Jaime's he's
searching overtime in this episode I'm
just trying to scare you with all the
shit you seen your whole life
these were enormous birds there's one
that shows that look at the size of that
thing
there's one that shows to really go to
back to that National Geographic thing
that you just have right there Jamie in
the middle yeah I think that was like a
CGI documentary that they had done on
one verse wolves I only want to click
well I think there's so much bigger than
the wolves they probably hunted them
down there's a size comparison there
isn't I see next to a human yes there
it's far left okay yeah chasing horses
and she's imagine my inspiration back
then only a whole different ballgame
with it oh yeah no it's so much more
exciting but dangerous as well you know
what when you're talking about people
that believe in which is and people that
believe in witchcraft back then you
almost had to have some belief system to
keep you going because you had no idea
yeah what was around the next corner
so these terror birds were alive I
believe when human beings are alive
right when did these things when one of
these things alive if I had a guess I'm
gonna guess they died out million years
ago half a million years ago
62 to 1.8 million years ago whoa 62
million to one point a temporal range
covers from 62 to 1.8 million years ago
so I think that's 62 million that's 62
years ago okay so no yeah so definitely
like dinosaur dinosaur age era
so just some kind of monkey chimp type
thing was all we had back then yeah I
think like that was like Australia
Pittacus or something like that what was
that what year was that okay yeah I'm
over googling you live in woods though
and that's that's terrifying you did the
camel spy
yes where her injects you have like an
anesthetic yeah they're like stories of
soldiers waking up half an ear missing
because they've been being injected in
the middle of the night by this big-ass
camel spider size of a dinner plate
isn't it what is this Jim mammals of the
mice Essene which are I guess the same
the same era so it looks like giant
sloths time period that North American
bear time period look how small the
horses are holy shit those giant sloths
thing avital is that's a short-faced
bear that's not as that's that enormous
bear you've seen that thing right the
short-faced bear she will face bear I
haven't seen no bro short-faced bear was
the most terrifying bear in all of
history
short-faced bear was way bigger than a
polar bear and super carnivorous and
they think it might have been the thing
that kept human beings from successfully
navigating the trek through the bering
land mass until they went extinct
they're huge this there's a picture of a
guy standing next to a recreation of a
short-faced bear and it's it's so big
they think people probably hunted them
off distinction or they don't they don't
really really know to get an image of a
short-faced bear that's ridiculous and
well known I didn't even know existed
until a few years ago oh this is
probably so much that's why that's sappy
and I don't know if it goes into the
details yeah sapien just go into the
details of it go with the one on the far
right corner right yes that's what it
looks like oh you just would not venture
outside fucking imagine how big that is
root isn't it it's like a cartoon comic
book version of a bear like you can't
believe we're looking at this thing or
literally this thing is standing up
these gentlemen let's just assume
there's somewhere in the neighborhood of
six feet tall
this thing is their entire height plus a
couple of feet so double their entire
height I should say plus a couple of
feet that's like their their head this
thing's standing up and their their
heads are like right around where his
hip bone is although he is on a little
bit of County nice it's pretty close to
14 15 feet maybe
yeah but why they have a mono Mound
listen bitch we know he's tall
come on exaggerating you're making it
look more ridiculous it's ridiculous as
it is without putting him being on a
mound yeah why do you have him here
you're trying to make it even crazier
it's crazy enough but super predatory
tastes bad yeah
between that and saber-toothed Tigers
there was an African lion that used to
live here
look at that fucking we were just the
bone of the food chain we soon as we
invented the fire wasn't it so he
discovered the fire boom change control
of fire probably helped weapons Flint
yeah they'll say we came first
you just have to scraps wouldn't we
leftovers from lions do you feel when
you're doing these tracks and you're
going on these these journeys and you're
walking through places like Mongolia
that are incredibly wild do you do you
try to like envision what it must have
been like to be an early person yeah all
these amazing resources that you have at
your disposal to help you get to this
air everything going - yeah oh it would
be a whole different kit and everything
like so in Mongolia didn't actually even
use like GPS because that failed me oh
yeah all communities were in different
places it just didn't work I went back
to boxed and it's map and compass look
you imagine even before then as well man
encompass you say a fold-up map yeah
let's get out yeah we we worth no no no
again boxed and it low-budget journey
that the Mongolia one was so on so if
you lost your map you'd be fucked yeah
that but also the the track that I was
on as I said that you could be following
goat track or camel track and I see a
lifeline that leads it to the next water
source so if you're in a desert storm
for example it make more sense to try to
keep going well no just I tried to count
down hide under shelter if you lose
sight of the track don't keep going yeah
so if you that's why I didn't walk at
night as well a lot of people say well
it's hot during the day and he's
suffering with dehydration why don't you
walk at night I mean you've got the ammo
pit vipers smokes you stand on the back
end of them because you don't see it
you'll you're pretty screwed but you've
also got the tracks you need to be able
to see in the distance the tracks but
enough because you'll come across almost
like a junction a four to five different
tracks
but you know do they actually need a map
and compass to be like well which one
which track should I go down you know
terrified oh my god I can't even imagine
you can't communicate if you come across
if you're lucky to come across locals as
well pointing in the wrong don't you in
their community which starts after up
north and you'll trying to kill East
they try and say no I want to go that
way no no next communities this way so I
don't want the next community I want to
walk to the most Eastern you know so
it's difficult but yeah that was always
a threat the dehydration in Mongolia
really terrified me you know what
happens if a stand storm comers the
track up if yeah back to you map and
compass and just hoping that you can be
aware of the people around you hoping
you've got enough water up and you make
it to another community or settlement
where as the jungle harsh environment
that you know and spiders wise snake
wise etc but at the same time always got
water you can hack in the bamboo and it
just leaks out water you know you always
got food does anybody know where you are
yeah I had a tracking device and
especially for mission Yangtze because
it was beginners world record we had set
off a tracker and every five minutes it
come up with my speed so even if I
jumped in a car on a bicycle boom every
five minutes it's my speed it's my
altitude my longitude latitude
coordinates the distance covered whether
I'm active and you'll do min and you can
see my current location within five
meters and that was part of the
interactivity so I wanted to make this
expedition as interactive as possible
for the full year of like sharing blogs
videos live streams photos getting
people to join again presenting in
schools getting the kids out litter
picking along the Yangtze River doing
their filming for the documentary which
was securing International International
Documentary the mission Yangtze will go
out as so that's exciting so all of this
was very very well planned very in terms
of the interactivity it's like six
months of survival six months of you
know interacting with all the locals and
just share and again out there as best
as we possibly could so I was heavily on
the radar with the GPS systems the track
isn't a lot Wow well listen man you got
an infectious sort of way of
you notice it makes me almost want to do
some point though yeah come join me
nowhere but it does make me appreciate
what you've done in that way because I
can see how it's affected you it's like
and what we're saying earlier about
things being when you when you do
something incredibly difficult like that
it's sort of like enhances you as a
person enhances your view of the world
you can you have just more things you've
seen than the IKE how old you 29 yeah
for the average 29 you're 29 year old
person there's no comparison the things
that you see in the way you've
experienced them in a very difficult way
and very difficult and you know it's
it's a very courageous way to like the
way you've just asking people for food
like it's kind of nuts yeah yeah yeah
that's it appreciate it
but again you know I normal upbringing
normal background so again I come I do
all of these school tools corporate
talks and that's the main message that I
want to portray it's there's no
financial background there's no even
university degree no military background
sort of working through hard work you
know and if I can do it you can do it
type of message you know is out there
just got a hold your vision hold you
doing protect it it doesn't matter what
what else anyone says and it doesn't
matter if they don't see it for you
what's important if you can see it for
yourself also go for it you have to be a
special person to be able to do this all
you knuckleheads out there the thing I'm
gonna go walk across Africa now don't ya
don't don't the city restoration yeah do
it the way you've done it the right way
that's it listen thank you for coming
here man I really really really enjoy
sorry - it was really cool and you're
like I said your stories it's very very
inspirational man but it's also it's
it's exciting I like to know these
people like you out there no that's
great no thank you thank you very much
tell people how to follow you on
Instagram
yeah Instagram it's just ash underscore
dykes because everything the story yeah
everything's ash Twitter as well
Twitter Facebook et y que es dy que es
yes okay beautiful thank you sir thank
you much bye everybody
fun
[Applause]
[Music]